aergbquivmcqqmugyiqcsijcaglajswedasonoxg length 5 94404 page 5612 Featured articles shown on the Main Page Today's featured article This star symbolizes the featured content on Wikipedia. Each day, a summary (roughly 975 characters long) of one of Wikipedia's featured articles (FAs) appears at the top of the Main Page as Today's Featured Article (TFA). The Main Page is viewed about 4.7 million times daily. TFAs are scheduled by the TFA coordinators: Wehwalt, Dank and Gog the Mild. WP:TFAA displays the current month, with easy navigation to other months. If you notice an error in an upcoming TFA summary, please feel free to fix it yourself; if the mistake is in today's or tomorrow's summary, please leave a message at WP:ERRORS so an administrator can fix it. Articles can be nominated for TFA at the TFA requests page, and articles with a date connection within the next year can be suggested at the TFA pending page. Feel free to bring questions and comments to the TFA talk page, and you can ping all the TFA coordinators by adding "{{@TFA}}" in a signed comment on any talk page. Shortcuts WP:TFA WP:TOFA v t e Featured content: Featured articles ← Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Featured article candidates (FAC) Featured article criteria Featured article log Featured article statistics Featured article review (FAR) Former featured articles Unreviewed featured articles/2020 Today's featured article (TFA): This month's queue About Today's featured article Recent TFAs and statistics Current TFA requests Potential TFA requests TFA oddities Most viewed TFAs Featured articles yet to appear as TFA Script to track TFA recent changes Featured article tools: Mentoring for FAC Nominators of featured articles promoted Recent changes to featured articles Random featured article Today's featured article archive 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 January February March April May June July August September October November December Purge cache for this page · Purge the main page cache From today's featured article Hilary Putnam, philosopher and mathematician The Quine–Putnam indispensability argument reasons that we should believe in abstract mathematical objects such as numbers and sets because mathematics is indispensable to science. One of the most important ideas in the philosophy of mathematics, it is credited to W. V. Quine and Hilary Putnam (pictured). The roots of the argument can be traced back to thinkers such as Gottlob Frege and Kurt Gödel, but Quine introduced its key components, including naturalism and confirmational holism. Putnam gave Quine's argument its first detailed formulation, although he later expressed disagreement with some aspects of the argument. Many counterarguments have been raised against the idea. An influential argument by Hartry Field holds that mathematical entities are dispensable to science. Other philosophers, such as Penelope Maddy, have argued that we do not need to believe in all of the entities that are indispensable to science. (Full article...) Recently featured: "To Be Loved" (Adele song) Alan Shepard Australiformis Archive By email More featured articles About From tomorrow's featured article The sarcophagus of Eshmunazar II dates to the 6th century BC and was unearthed in 1855 near Sidon, in modern-day Lebanon. It contained the body of a Phoenician king of Sidon and is one of only three Ancient Egyptian sarcophagi found outside Egypt. It was likely carved in Egypt from local amphibolite and captured during Cambyses II's conquest of Egypt in 525 BC. The sarcophagus has two sets of Phoenician inscriptions, one on its lid and a partial copy of it around the curvature of the head. This was the first Phoenician language text to be discovered in Phoenicia proper and the most detailed found to that point. More than a dozen scholars rushed to translate it, noting the similarities between the Phoenician language and Hebrew. The translation allowed them to identify the king buried inside, his lineage, and his construction feats. The inscriptions also warn against disturbing Eshmunazar II's place of repose. Today the sarcophagus is a highlight of the Louvre's Phoenician collection. (Full article...) Recently featured: Quine–Putnam indispensability argument "To Be Loved" (Adele song) Alan Shepard Archive By email More featured articles About From the day after tomorrow's featured article Kennedy in 1961 The assassination of John F. Kennedy occurred on November 22, 1963, while Kennedy was riding in a motorcade through Dealey Plaza in Dallas, Texas, and was shot from the Texas School Book Depository by Lee Harvey Oswald. Kennedy was pronounced dead at Parkland Memorial Hospital shortly afterward. Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson was sworn in as president later that day. Oswald was arrested and charged with murder. Two days later, he was shot dead by Jack Ruby on live television. The Warren Commission concluded that Oswald killed Kennedy, acting alone; most subsequent federal investigations have agreed with its general findings. The event is still the subject of debate and conspiracy theories, in which many Americans believe. Kennedy's killing had a profound impact and was the first of four major assassinations during the 1960s in the U.S., including that of Kennedy's brother Robert in 1968. Kennedy was the fourth U.S. president to be assassinated and the most recent to have died in office. (Full article...) Recently featured: Sarcophagus of Eshmunazar II Quine–Putnam indispensability argument "To Be Loved" (Adele song) Archive By email More featured articles About contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 70 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Today%27s_featured_article responseCode 3 200 