agbojcrgiojmganmumnamiegcqyouiqkgkyihqpq length 6 102231 page 8016 2nd President of Uruguay (1835-38) This article is about the Uruguayan politician. For the obese Mexican man, see Manuel Uribe. This article's lead section may be too short to adequately summarize the key points. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. (June 2020) In this Spanish name, the first or paternal surname is Oribe and the second or maternal family name is Viana. Manuel Oribe 2nd Constitutional President of Uruguay In office March 1, 1835 – October 24, 1838 Preceded by Carlos Anaya Succeeded by Gabriel Antonio Pereira Personal details Born (1792-08-26)August 26, 1792 Montevideo, Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata Died November 12, 1857(1857-11-12) (aged 65) Montevideo, Uruguay Nationality Uruguayan Political party White Spouse Agustina Contucci Children 4 Profession Military Signature Manuel Ceferino Oribe y Viana (August 26, 1792 – November 12, 1857) was the 2nd Constitutional president of Uruguay and founder of Uruguay's National Party, the oldest Uruguayan political party and considered one of the two Uruguayan "traditional" parties, along with the Colorado Party, which was, until the 20th century, its only political adversary. Biography[edit] Manuel Oribe was the son of Captain Francisco Oribe and María Francisca Viana, a descendant of the first governor of Montevideo, José Joaquín de Viana. At the beginning of the revolution of independence in the Rio de la Plata he enlisted in the patriot ranks as a volunteer. His baptism of fire took place in the battle of Cerrito, on New Year's Eve, 1812, during the Second Siege of Montevideo, a feat of arms that ended in a victory for the Patriots. He took part alongside José Gervasio Artigas' resistance against the Luso-Brazilian invasion in 1816. In late 1817, with Montevideo already fallen into the hands of the Luso-Brazilians, Oribe moved to Buenos Aires along with his brother Ignacio and Colonel Rufino Bauza, taking with him the Freedmen Battalion and an artillery battalion. Rivalry with Rivera[edit] The historian Francisco Bauza, son of Rufino Bauza, in his "Historia de la dominación española en el Uruguay" (1880-1882), argued that given the almost obsessive insistence of Artigas to name his favorite, Fructuoso Rivera, as a military commander and the south of Río Negro to face the invasion, Rufino Bauza and Manuel Oribe would have come out against a situation that led to a violent exchange of words with Artigas, whose military situation was going out of hand. The personal rivalry between Rivera and Oribe, which apparently dates from such events, the young officer decided to abandon his boss. Carlos Federico Lecor, commander of the occupying forces, offered no hindrance to the passage of eastern officials in Buenos Aires, even though he could not attract them to your cause. Rivera and his people were in the service of the invader Lusitanians. The first stay in Buenos Aires[edit] In Buenos Aires, known by the certifying of stationery at the time, since 1819, Oribe, along with other Orientals as Santiago Vazquez and residents who were equally opposed to the Brazilian Portuguese occupation and Artigas, have built a secret Masonic society, called the Society of the Eastern Knights, who waited at least until 1821, Cisplatin Congress to undertake a return to the, since then, called Cisplatina Province and begin work to reverse the situation. Meanwhile, following the defeat of Artigas (and even before it) another section of the eastern elite had acceded to the occupants, accepting and in fact closely collaborating with the Portuguese. This is the only sector to be represented in Congress Cisplatin, 1821. The occupation of the Banda Oriental and its transformation into "Cisplatina Province" by the Portuguese and Brazilian troops had resulted in additional fracture of the leading sectors, which has since lined up in two groups separated by the acceptance or rejection of that military presence: The group that included Montevideo-Fructuoso Rivera, pro-Portuguese, named Club of the Baron, for its proximity to the invading commander Carlos Federico Lecor (Baron de la Laguna) The exiles in Buenos Aires, where Oribe was located, were a proponent of reintegration into the United Provinces of Río de la Plata as soon as possible. Those groups would eventually become the Colorado and White party. President of Uruguay[edit] Main article: Presidency of Manuel Oribe He served as President of Uruguay between 1835 and 1838. Oribe was a big supporter of Juan Manuel de Rosas in Argentina, who in turn supported him. A civil war, two simultaneous governments[edit] In 1838 he was forced to resign by Fructuoso Rivera but started a rebel army and began a long civil war which lasted until 1851. Oribe besieged the capital Montevideo for 8 long years (period known as Great Siege of Montevideo); he presided over the "Gobierno del Cerrito". At last Oribe was defeated in 1851 with help from Brazil and Argentine rebels, led by Justo José de Urquiza, who were against Rosas. Later life[edit] In 1857, Oribe and his family narrowly survived a shipwreck. For this reason he presented a golden crown as a gift to the image of the Virgin of the Thirty-Three. Historical and political heritage[edit] Oribe's supporters became known as the Nationals or Blancos, while his opponents became the Colorados. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Manuel Oribe. "Leader of the Blanco people" (in Spanish). EL PAIS. 2013-04-19. https://web.archive.org/web/20070713172949/http://www.bartleby.com/65/or/Oribe-Ma.html Columbia Encyclopedia article Political offices Preceded by Carlos Anaya President of Uruguay 1835–1838 Succeeded by Gabriel Antonio Pereira Preceded by Fructuoso Rivera President of Uruguay Acting 1843–1851 Succeeded by Joaquín Suárez v t e Heads of state and government of Uruguay Heads of state Governors (1828-1830) Joaquín Suárez José Rondeau Juan Antonio Lavalleja Presidents (1830–1955) Fructuoso Rivera Carlos Anaya Manuel Oribe Fructuoso Rivera Joaquín Suárez Juan Francisco Giró Venancio Flores Gabriel Antonio Pereira Bernardo Berro Lorenzo Batlle y Grau José Eugenio Ellauri Pedro Varela Lorenzo Latorre Francisco Antonino Vidal Alberto Flangini Máximo Santos Francisco Antonino Vidal Máximo Santos Máximo Tajes Julio Herrera y Obes Duncan Stewart Juan Idiarte Borda Juan Lindolfo Cuestas José Batlle y Ordóñez Feliciano Viera Baltasar Brum José Serrato Juan Campisteguy Gabriel Terra Alfredo Baldomir Juan José de Amézaga Tomás Berreta Luis Batlle Berres Andrés Martínez Trueba Presidency abolished between 1955 and 1967; the National Council of Government became the collective head of state Presidents (1967–present) Óscar Diego Gestido Jorge Pacheco Areco Juan María Bordaberry Alberto Demicheli Aparicio Méndez Gregorio Conrado Álvarez Rafael Addiego Bruno Julio María Sanguinetti Luis Alberto Lacalle Julio María Sanguinetti Jorge Batlle Ibáñez Tabaré Vázquez José Mujica Tabaré Vázquez Luis Lacalle Pou Heads of government The president was both head of state and head of government between 1830 and 1917 Prime ministers of the National Council of Administration (1917–1933) Feliciano Viera José Batlle y Ordóñez Julio María Sosa Luis Alberto de Herrera José Batlle y Ordóñez Luis C. Caviglia Baltasar Brum Juan Pedro Fabini Antonio Rubio The president was both head of state and head of government between 1933 and 1955 Chairmen of the National Council of Government (1955–1967) Luis Batlle Berres Alberto Fermín Zubiría Arturo Lezama Carlos Fischer Martín Echegoyen Benito Nardone Eduardo Víctor Haedo Faustino Harrison Daniel Fernández Crespo Luis Giannattasio Washington Beltrán Alberto Héber Usher The president is both head of state and head of government from 1967 onward Authority control databases International FAST ISNI VIAF National Spain France BnF data Germany Israel United States Netherlands Other IdRef contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Manuel_Oribe responseCode 3 200 