aihizezisaectixizqigwgnmyaemaibapkeskqkk page 10032 Skip to table of contents This is the talk page for discussing improvements to the Subrata Roy article. This is not a forum for general discussion of the article's subject. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit; get help. Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Article policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Find sources: Google (books · news · scholar · free images · WP refs) · FENS · JSTOR · NYT · TWL This page is not a forum for general discussion about Subrata Roy. Any such comments may be removed or refactored. Please limit discussion to improvement of this article. You may wish to ask factual questions about Subrata Roy at the Reference desk. This article is written in Indian English, which has its own spelling conventions (colour, travelled, centre, analysed, defence) and some terms that are used in it may be different or absent from other varieties of English. According to the relevant style guide, this should not be changed without broad consensus. This article is of interest to the following WikiProjects: Biography Start‑class Biography portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Biography, a collaborative effort to create, develop and organize Wikipedia's articles about people. All interested editors are invited to join the project and contribute to the discussion. For instructions on how to use this banner, please refer to the documentation.BiographyWikipedia:WikiProject BiographyTemplate:WikiProject Biographybiography articles Start This article has been rated as Start-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. India: Bihar Start‑class Mid‑importance India portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject India, which aims to improve Wikipedia's coverage of India-related topics. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page.IndiaWikipedia:WikiProject IndiaTemplate:WikiProject IndiaIndia articles Start This article has been rated as Start-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale. This article is supported by WikiProject Bihar (assessed as Mid-importance). Business Start‑class Mid‑importance Business portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Business, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of business articles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.BusinessWikipedia:WikiProject BusinessTemplate:WikiProject BusinessWikiProject Business articles Start This article has been rated as Start-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale. Crime and Criminal Biography Start‑class Mid‑importance This article is within the scope of WikiProject Crime and Criminal Biography, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Crime and Criminal Biography articles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.Crime and Criminal BiographyWikipedia:WikiProject Crime and Criminal BiographyTemplate:WikiProject Crime and Criminal BiographyCrime-related articles Start This article has been rated as Start-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale. An item related to this article has been nominated to appear on the Main Page in the "In the news" section. You can visit the nomination to take part in the discussion. Editors are encouraged to update the article with information obtained from reliable news sources to include recent events. Notice date: 14 November 2023. Please remove this template when the nomination process has concluded, replacing it with Template:ITN talk if appropriate. It is requested that a photograph be included in this article to improve its quality. The Free Image Search Tool or WordPress Openverse may be able to locate suitable images on Flickr and other web sites. Upload Contested deletion[edit] This page should not be speedy deleted because it is very helpful and reliable. — Preceding unsigned comment added by 121.45.82.71 (talk) 11:10, 9 June 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply] Is it right to add such Allegations/Controversies on a biography when nothing has been proved yet.[edit] In the section Controversies there are two different allegations 1. 2G Spectrum Scam and Contempt of Court & 2. Securities and Exchange Board of India Ban Both cases are still under judiciary and nothing has been proved yet. In contempt of the court case Senior Advocate K K Venugopal said on behalf of the CBI that: “Evidence found till now is insufficient” Reference: http://post.jagran.com/2g-case-cbi-examines-radia-others-in-allegation-against-sahara-1310403191 . In case of SEBI ban, Supreme Court of india on 15th July 2011 granted a stay on market regulator SEBI’s order of June 23, 2011 that ordered Sahara Group companies to return the money raised through optionally fully convertible debentures (OFCD). Reference: http://profit.ndtv.com/news/show/sc-directs-sahara-to-approach-sat-against-sebi-order-on-ofcds-164375 So according to me it is unfair to write about these Allegations/Controversies on a biography when nothing has been proved yet. I would like to request all contributors to put your views forward on this issue.--Mukulsaurabh (talk) 04:59, 29 July 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply] I have been following both the cases and am also the major contributor to the said article. In my opinion, both the cases mentioned under section Controversies are still in court of law and has not been proven, hence at this point including the section to the biography will be unfair to the person whose biography is this. (Ghulam Zeeshan (talk) 07:33, 29 July 2011 (UTC))Reply[reply] Copyright problem removed[edit] Prior content in this article duplicated one or more previously published sources. The material was copied from: copyvio sources were listed as references. Infringing material has been rewritten or removed and must not be restored, unless it is duly released under a compatible license. (For more information, please see "using copyrighted works from others" if you are not the copyright holder of this material, or "donating copyrighted materials" if you are.) For legal reasons, we cannot accept copyrighted text or images borrowed from other web sites or published material; such additions will be deleted. Contributors may use copyrighted publications as a source of information, but not as a source of sentences or phrases. Accordingly, the material may be rewritten, but only if it does not infringe on the copyright of the original or plagiarize from that source. Please see our guideline on non-free text for how to properly implement limited quotations of copyrighted text. Wikipedia takes copyright violations very seriously, and persistent violators will be blocked from editing. While we appreciate contributions, we must require all contributors to understand and comply with these policies. Thank you. —SpacemanSpiff 13:03, 15 September 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply] Experience[edit] In the page it says he started his journey with Sahara in 1978 ie he was only 30yrs old at that time. Further the same section comments that at that point he had an experience of 32yrs in Business Development. To me it seems like a typo, can someone correct that?115.254.25.18 (talk) 16:09, 24 April 2012 (UTC)Reply[reply] File:Mother with Subrata Roy Sahara.jpg Nominated for speedy Deletion[edit] An image used in this article, File:Mother with Subrata Roy Sahara.jpg, has been nominated for speedy deletion at Wikimedia Commons for the following reason: Copyright violations What should I do? Don't panic; deletions can take a little longer at Commons than they do on Wikipedia. This gives you an opportunity to contest the deletion (although please review Commons guidelines before doing so). The best way to contest this form of deletion is by posting on the image talk page. If the image is non-free then you may need to upload it to Wikipedia (Commons does not allow fair use) If the image isn't freely licensed and there is no fair use rationale then it cannot be uploaded or used. If the image has already been deleted you may want to try Commons Undeletion Request This notification is provided by a Bot --CommonsNotificationBot (talk) 13:29, 19 September 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply] File:Qshop-logo.jpg Nominated for speedy Deletion[edit] An image used in this article, File:Qshop-logo.jpg, has been nominated for speedy deletion at Wikimedia Commons for the following reason: Copyright violations What should I do? Don't panic; deletions can take a little longer at Commons than they do on Wikipedia. This gives you an opportunity to contest the deletion (although please review Commons guidelines before doing so). The best way to contest this form of deletion is by posting on the image talk page. If the image is non-free then you may need to upload it to Wikipedia (Commons does not allow fair use) If the image isn't freely licensed and there is no fair use rationale then it cannot be uploaded or used. If the image has already been deleted you may want to try Commons Undeletion Request This notification is provided by a Bot --CommonsNotificationBot (talk) 16:09, 29 November 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply] Page protection[edit] I've now protected this article. I've also rolled back the most recent edit. This is NOT to say that the version that I've put it on is an 'approved' version, but the last edit, though containing some sources, was more likely to breach WP:BLP and WP:UNDUE. You need to find a balance between not reporting it at all, and completely overloading the article. GedUK 12:09, 11 April 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply] This edit reque contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:Subrata_Roy responseCode 3 200 