aklceggmzmwihqykeinquoisnixkomtscsuojsak length 6 259131 page 10036 Inaugral men's Cricket World Cup tournament Prudential Cup '75 Official logo Dates 7 June – 21 June 1975 Administrator(s) International Cricket Conference Cricket format One Day International Tournament format(s) Round robin and knockout Host(s) England Champions West Indies (1st title) Runners-up Australia Participants 8 Matches 15 Attendance 158,000 (10,533 per match) Most runs Glenn Turner (333) Most wickets Gary Gilmour (11) 1979 → The 1975 Cricket World Cup (officially called the Prudential Cup '75) was the inaugural men's Cricket World Cup, and the first major tournament in the history of One Day International (ODI) cricket. Organised by the International Cricket Conference (ICC), it took place in England between 7 June and 21 June 1975. The tournament was sponsored by Prudential Assurance Company and had eight participating countries: the six Test-playing teams of the time – Australia, England, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, the West Indies – and the two leading Associate nations at the time – Sri Lanka and East Africa. The teams were divided into two groups of four, with each team playing each other in their group once; the top two from each group qualified for the semi-finals, with the winners of these matches meeting in the final. Each match consisted of 60 overs per team and was played in traditional white clothing and with red balls; all were played and ended in daylight. England and New Zealand finished as the top two teams in Group A, while the West Indies finished top of the Group B table ahead of Australia as the four teams qualified through to the semi-finals. After Australia defeated England and the West Indies defeated New Zealand in the semi-finals, the West Indies which came into the tournament as favourites, defeated Australia in the final at Lord's by 17 runs to become the first World Cup winners. New Zealand batsman, Glenn Turner was the top run-scorer for the tournament with 333 runs, whilst Australian bowler Gary Gilmour was the top wicket-taker with 11 wickets despite only playing in the final two matches. Background[edit] The first multilateral cricket competition at international level was the 1912 Triangular Tournament in England. This was played between the three test nations at the time – England, Australia and South Africa. The concept was later dropped because of inclement weather and a lack of public interest.[1] The first one-day match to occur was in 1962 when four English county cricket teams filled in a gap to play in a limited overs knockout competition. It was won by Northamptonshire who defeated Leicestershire by five wickets.[2] The limited-over format had been used in what sponsors marketed as a 'World Cricket Cup' in England in 1966 and 1967, contested between England, a Rest of the World XI, and a touring team (the West Indies in 1966 and Pakistan in 1967). The marketing of the event was clearly influenced by the hosting of the 1966 FIFA World Cup in the same country. The 1966 'World Cricket Cup' was won by England,[3] that in 1967 by the Rest of the World.[4] A report in the Cricketer implied that the last such match in this "Triangular Tournament", between Pakistan and the Rest of the World was neither well-attended nor taken entirely seriously: "It was a pity that a larger crowd was not present ... Sobers took the Cup and the World Xl took the gold medals. They must have enjoyed their holiday".[5] It was not until 1971 that the first official One Day International (ODI) took place at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) as a replacement for the third test of the 1970–71 Ashes series between Australia and England. This was due to a deluge of rain that had affected the match for the first three days of the test.[6] The match was a forty over match with each over being eight deliveries. After England made 190 from 39.4 overs, Australia chased the target at a steady rate to secure the match with 42 balls remaining.[7] Two years later at Lord's during the 1973 Women's Cricket World Cup, plans were made for a men's tournament to take place in 1975. The tournament was planned to involve all the Test nations at the time in two group stages with the top two in each group qualifying for the knockout stage with the final at Lord's.[8] Format[edit] The format of the 1975 Cricket World Cup had the eight teams split into two groups of four, with each team playing the rest of their group once. These matches took place from 7 to 14 June. The top two teams from each group then advanced to the semi-finals on 18 June, where the winners qualified for the final at Lord's on 21 June. If any of the matches had rain throughout the day, the teams could use one of their two reserve days that had been set for each match.[8] The first World Cup saw seven venues being used across England.[9] Participants[edit] The countries highlighted participated in the 1975 Cricket World Cup. Qualified as full member of ICC Qualified by invitation Eight teams were invited to compete at the World Cup. Six of those nations were full members of the International Cricket Council (ICC), while the other two – Sri Lanka and East Africa – were invited to fill the remaining two spots. South Africa was meant to be one of the teams in the tournament, but due to the apartheid laws in the country, the team had to withdraw from competing until the 1992 edition.[8] Team Method of qualification Rank Group England Host 1 A India Full Member 5 A Australia Full Member 3 B Pakistan Full Member 6 B West Indies Full Member 2 B New Zealand Full Member 4 A Sri Lanka Invitation – B East Africa Invitation – A Venues[edit] The announcement of the venues began on 26 July 1973 when the ICC revealed that the tournament would be played with Lord's selected as the venue for the final.[8] The rest of the venues were revealed on 5 November 1974 with the scheduling for the tournament being announced alongside the five county tournaments that would take place during the 1975 season. Headingley and The Oval were confirmed as the semi-final hosts.[10] London Lord's The Oval Nottingham Birmingham Leeds Manchester London Lord's The Oval Capacity: 30,000 Capacity: 23,500 Birmingham Manchester Edgbaston Cricket Ground Old Trafford Cricket Ground Capacity: 21,000 Capacity: 19,000 Nottingham Leeds Trent Bridge Headingley Capacity: 15,350 Capacity: 14,000 Squads[edit] Main article: 1975 Cricket World Cup squads Preparations[edit] Heading into the first Cricket World Cup, the Ladbrokes betting agency had the West Indies as the favourites at 9–4. This was followed by England at 11–4 with Pakistan and Australia in third and fourth respectively. East Africa was last in the betting odds at 1500–1.[11] Before the tournament, most of the teams played in warm-up matches against English county sides to get used to the English conditions with most of the national teams getting wins. Only East Africa,[12] Sri Lanka[13] and India lost at least one warm-up match before the tournament.[14] Only Australia did not have any warm-up matches in England; their tour of Canada saw them lose to Eastern Canada and draw with Toronto before heading to England.[15][16] Eight days before the World Cup, the ICC declared in a unanimous decision that any of the balls that went over a batsman's head would be called wide due to the fast short-pitched bowling.[17] Group stage[edit] Summary[edit] The opening round of matches took place on 7 June with four matches being played. The match at Lord's saw England deliver the highest score by a team in the 60 over match with 334 runs being scored. Dennis Amiss top scored for the English with 137 from 147 balls helped by Keith Fletcher and Chris Old who each recorded a half-century. In response, Sunil Gavaskar batted through the entire innings for only 36 runs in which Gulabrai Ramchand thought that he was doing some batting practice.[18] Australia opened their campaign with a win against Pakistan at Headingley with a 73-run victory. This was due to Dennis Lillee's five-wicket haul which brought Pakistan's hope of a win crashing down as they collapsed from 181 for four to be all out for 205. Earlier, Ross Edwards top scored for Australia with 80 as he aided the Australians in getting 94 runs from the last 13 overs to bring Australia to 278 for seven from their 60 overs.[19][20] The other two matches saw easy wins for the West Indies and New Zealand. For Glenn Turner, he occupied the crease during the whole New Zealand innings as he top scored with 171 as New Zealand won by 181 runs over East Africa. The West Indies took a nine-wicket victory over Sri Lanka who became the first team to score under 100 runs in a One Day International.[21] Despite missing two players due to operation – Asif Iqbal – and examinations – Imran Khan – Pakistan was not fazed by the missing players in the second round of games with the team scoring 266 for seven from their 60 overs with standing captain Majid Khan top scoring for Pakistan with 60.[22] In response, the West Indies fell to 166 for eight which included a period of three wickets for only 10 runs as Bernard Julien, Clive Lloyd and Keith Boyce all losing their wickets. But the last wicket pair of Deryck Murray and Andy Roberts stole the match away as the West Indies won by a wicket off the final over.[23] The other match in Group B saw Australia claim their second victory, but it was not all smooth with the Australian captain Ian Chappell remarking in an interview that the English media was trying to unsettle Australia's plans due to the Jeff Thomson no-ball problem with Chappell saying: "I've seen this sort of thing before in England".[24] On the field, Alan Turner scored a century as Australia ended with 328 with Sri Lanka falling 52 runs short as John Mason from The Daily Telegraph stated that they might not have many new admirers with their short ball stuff sending two Sri Lankan batsman to hospital.[25][26] Group A saw two convincing wins to England and India. At Trent Bridge, Keith Fletcher top scored contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/1975_Cricket_World_Cup responseCode 3 200 