amfauaiqgehojsoccmliravaxqpqmavgrekqtmbo length 6 273396 page 10012 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 30 November 2022 00:00, 30 November 2022 (UTC) Coat of arms of Curaçao ... that a design competition was held in 2022 to find a replacement for the coat of arms of Curaçao (depicted)? ... that Carter Moore Braxton fought for the Confederacy throughout the American Civil War and, according to one report, had seven horses killed under him but avoided any wounds? ... that the Adoration of the Magi with Saint Helena was once the main altarpiece at Sant'Elena, a church dedicated to its namesake? ... that after the Supreme Court of Ohio imposed restrictions on bail procedures, the dissenting justices participated in a bus tour to campaign for a ballot measure that took away their power on that issue? ... that a peace monument was erected for Turkish journalist Abdi İpekçi in the place where he was shot and killed by an assassin 21 years earlier? ... that in 2016 an inflatable gorilla was erected on the top of the Sky Trek Tower for Six Flags Great America's Halloween event Fright Fest? ... that Ugandan military officer Bernard Rwehururu originally wanted to become a Catholic priest, but enlisted as a soldier to pay for his siblings' school fees? ... that Delsworth Buckingham was an Odd Fellow? 29 November 2022 00:00, 29 November 2022 (UTC) Giant bucket hat in Cardiff ... that giant bucket hats (pictured) were placed around Wales and in Qatar to mark Wales' football team reaching the 2022 FIFA World Cup? ... that after he, his father, and his grandfather won the Rurrenabaque mayoralty as MNR members, Yerko Núñez switched parties and won a third term, defeating the MNR by a margin of 3,476 votes to 30? ... that LCD Soundsystem recorded for the first time in five years by making the song "New Body Rhumba" for the 2022 film White Noise? ... that Syndicate was the first to reach 1 million followers on Twitch, beating League of Legends developer Riot Games to the record? ... that when students spoke Vietnamese in a graduation speech in Louisiana, the school district proposed banning all non-English languages? ... that in 2020 when Persian-Canadian countertenor Cameron Shahbazi performed in Written on Skin in Cologne, his "Luciferian charm" and "iridescent voice" were noted? ... that the Lieutenant Governor of North Carolina, uniquely within the Council of State, has powers in both the executive and legislative branches of government? ... that a woman hitchhiked from Indiana to Washington, D.C., to protest the sale of the radio station where she worked? 28 November 2022 00:00, 28 November 2022 (UTC) Karl Liebknecht ... that 55,000 Berlin workers went on strike on 28 June 1916 to protest the arrest and trial of anti-war campaigner Karl Liebknecht (pictured)? ... that Derrick Palmer and Chris Smalls, leaders of the Amazon Labor Union, were named two of the "100 most influential people in the world" in 2022? ... that the 1957 Mongolia earthquake produced the world's best-preserved surface rupture of any great earthquake? ... that Jean Holzworth obtained a PhD in Latin, then retrained as a veterinarian after one of her favorite cats died from a viral infection? ... that Wyndham Lewis abandoned work on a portrait of Edith Sitwell from 1923 to 1935 after he failed to pay the rent for his studio? ... that Erick Russell is the first openly gay African American elected to a statewide office in the United States? ... that Gastria in Cyprus is "not old", but is home to Bronze Age tombs and a medieval castle? ... that the robot Cozmo is said to have "felt like a real-life version of WALL·E"? 27 November 2022 00:00, 27 November 2022 (UTC) Exchange Hotel, Montgomery ... that the Exchange Hotel, Montgomery (pictured), where Confederate president Jefferson Davis's inaugural procession started, also hosted Ku Klux Klan leaders, politicians, prostitutes, and two US presidents? ... that the groundwater level of a coastal aquifer system changes with the tide? ... that agronomist Simon Groot was awarded the 2019 World Food Prize for "benefiting hundreds of millions of consumers with greater access to nutritious vegetables"? ... that 144 couples were pronounced man and wife on the Giant Drop before the cars at the top were released 205 feet (62 m) down? ... that as a child, Turkey national amputee footballer Şeyhmus Erdinç played football with balls he made out of crumpled paper? ... that when the Yale Club of New York City Building was completed in 1901, a Yale Club member said "it will be an easy matter to look down upon" the Harvard Club? ... that at 102 years old, Christian Lamb is one of the last surviving officers of the Women's Royal Naval Service who served throughout World War II? ... that given a choice between Life and World, the answer was Yes? 26 November 2022 00:00, 26 November 2022 (UTC) Nargess Eskandari-Grünberg in 2019 ... that Nargess Eskandari-Grünberg (pictured), the new mayor of Frankfurt, gave birth to her first child while a political prisoner in the wake of the Iranian Revolution? ... that Cranksgiving has been described as "part bike ride, part food drive, part scavenger hunt"? ... that the body of Fateme Asadi was found 37 years after she was tortured and killed by the Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan when she attempted to ransom her husband? ... that penetration enhancers can open tight junctions to allow entry of drugs? ... that James Diossa rescued the only public library and post office in Central Falls, Rhode Island, when the city went into bankruptcy? ... that the first judgement of 2022 from the High Court of Australia was considered a loss for a labour hire organisation, but a win for labour hire organisations? ... that Eleanor Hadley, a 29-year-old doctoral candidate in economics, was recruited by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to implement antitrust policies in occupied Japan? ... that some believe that learning about Roko's basilisk may cause a superintelligence from the future to torture you for eternity? 25 November 2022 00:00, 25 November 2022 (UTC) Holotype of Eatoniella mortoni ... that the New Zealand mollusc Eatoniella mortoni (pictured) can thrive in extreme carbon dioxide-rich environments, making it a subject for the study of ocean acidification? ... that the global coalition to save Abu Simbel, Philae and many other temples led to the creation of the modern list of World Heritage Sites? ... that spatial inequality refers to the unequal distribution of income and resources across geographical regions? ... that an interdisciplinary study concluded that the Motilla del Azuer was built during the 4.2-kiloyear BP aridification event, in a long period of severe drought? ... that Grumman Aerospace built its own power plant because it was cheaper than buying electricity from utilities? ... that academics called MoSys's 1T-SRAM a misnomer with "a catchy name"? ... that to protest against the overturning of Roe v. Wade, Billie Eilish performed a song that criticizes abusive men in power? ... that María Urquides was the "Mother of Bilingual Education"? 24 November 2022 00:00, 24 November 2022 (UTC) Suzanna Randall ... that astrophysicist Suzanna Randall (pictured) continued her research at the European Southern Observatory while training for the spaceflight programme Die Astronautin? ... that the documentary Boggy Creek Monster, about the Fouke Monster, had its first screening at a middle school? ... that environmental activist Nigel Savage created Hazon contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2022/November responseCode 3 200 