amlijqvqncncgaoaskicqmlmpqdegmjcyqbcjafg length 6 108113 page 10061 Royal Household Household of His Majesty the King Insignia of the Royal Household Role Executive office of the king Established 16th century Country Kingdom of Spain Responsible to King Felipe VI Head of the Household Jaime Alfonsín Alfonso Secretary-General Lt Gen. Domingo Martínez Palomo Court Marshal and Aides-de-Champ Gen. of Air Emilio Gracia Cirugeda Constitution instrument 1978 Constitution (Current household) Previous name Royal Household and Heritage of the Crown of Spain Website www.casareal.es Politics of Spain Constitution Constitution Constitutional Court President Cándido Conde-Pumpido Vice President Inmaculada Montalbán Huertas Constitutional history Spanish transition to democracy Human rights Taxation Law Abortion Nationality Capital punishment Life imprisonment The Crown Royal Household The Monarch (list) Felipe VI Heir presumptive (list) Leonor, Princess of Asturias Royal family Succession to the Spanish throne Executive Government of the Nation Prime Minister (list) Pedro Sánchez Deputy Prime Minister (list) Nadia Calviño (first) Yolanda Díaz (second) Teresa Ribera (third) Council of Ministers Sánchez III Government Ministries Government Delegations Government Delegated Committees Interministerial Committees Spanish prime-ministerial transition List of agencies in Spain Council of State Economic and Social Council Legislature Cortes Generales (14th Cortes Generales) Senate (14th Senate) Speaker (list) Ander Gil Congress of Deputies (14th Congress) Speaker (list) Meritxell Batet Parliamentary groups Permanent Deputation Bureaus of the Cortes Generales Board of Spokespersons People's Defender (ombudsman) Solemn Opening of the Parliament of Spain Judiciary General Council of the Judiciary Supreme Court President (list) Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Vice President Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Audiencia Nacional High courts of justice Court of Auditors Prosecution Ministry Euro European Central Bank Bank of Spain Governor of the Bank of Spain Pablo Hernández de Cos Deputy Governor of the Bank of Spain Margarita Delgado Tejero Royal Mint of Spain Administrative subdivisions Autonomous communities Legislatures Governments Presidents Autonomous cities Provinces Comarcas Municipalities Plazas de soberanía Elections Political parties Recent elections General: 2019 (Apr) 2019 (Nov) 2023 Regional: 2015 2019 2023 European: 2014 2019 2024 Referendums: 1978 1986 2005 Foreign relations Foreign relations Diplomatic missions of Spain in Spain Politics of the European Union Related topics Political parties: PP PSOE Podemos C's Spanish transition to democracy Francoist Spain Anarchism in Spain Liberalism and radicalism in Spain Spanish Civil War Nationalisms and regionalisms of Spain: Basque Catalan Galician Catalan independence movement (Spanish constitutional crisis of 2017–18) Disputed status of Gibraltar Republicanism in Spain (Second Spanish Republic) Spain portal Other countries v t e The Royal Household of Spain, officially the Household of His Majesty the King, is the constitutional body whose primary function is to provide aid and support to the King of Spain in the exercise of his royal duties and prerogatives.[1] These include his role as head of state[2] and as commander-in-chief of the Spanish Armed Forces.[3] It functions as the king's executive office. The household is under the direct authority of the king, who personally selects the individuals he chooses to aid him in his constitutional duties. It is a constitutional institution, as laid down in Spain’s constitution of 1978. While the household is part of Spain’s governmental structure, it is not under the control or influence of any other state institution. The household ensures that the king has the independent means to perform all of his state functions. In particular, it is not under the administrative control of the Prime Minister or the Council of Ministers. The only authority to whom it answers is the king himself. One of the household's primary functions is to facilitate communications between the king and the other state authorities. It is responsible for written and oral communications between the king and the government departments. It organizes and schedules meetings between the king, the Prime Minister, Ministers, Deputy Ministers, State Secretaries, Under Secretaries and other officials. Its budget, like those of the Office of the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, the Supreme Court, the Armed Forces and many others, is approved by the houses of the Spanish Parliament on a yearly basis. Background[edit] The current Royal Household has its historical precedent in the Royal Household and Heritage of the Crown of Spain, which was made defunct by the establishment of the Second Spanish Republic in 1931. Following the eventual restoration of the monarchy and Juan Carlos I's accession to the throne as king in 1975, a new Royal Household was established.[4] This new household was completely different from the former court of his grandfather, Alfonso XIII. The modern Royal Household is much simpler than the precedent institution and it was decided not to recreate the majority of offices which existed in the old Royal Household, maintaining basically the Head of the Royal Household and the Secretary General of the Royal Household. Both these offices are held by professional, senior civil servants, even if they come from the nobility. Royal Household budget[edit] According to article 65(1) of the 1978 constitution, the Head of State is entitled to compensation from the annual state budget for the maintenance of his family and household administration, and distributes these funds at his discretion. This budget is used to pay the salaries of members of the royal family who perform duties on behalf of the Spanish state. It also pays for the salaries and benefits (retirement, medical etc.) of the staff who work directly for the Household of His Majesty the King. The budget approved for 2023 is €8.43 million.[5] The two princesses are currently in school and do not perform public functions and as such do not receive a salary. Once they come of age they will assume public duties and be granted a salary in order to accomplish those duties.[6] Organizational structure[edit] According to article 65(2) of the 1978 constitution: "The King freely appoints and dismisses the civilian and military members of his household." In accordance with article 65(2), the authority to organize the royal household of His Majesty the King is vested in the Monarch. In the exercise of this authority the king chooses the officers and decides which departments form a part of the royal household. He also determines the functions and duties that they are responsible for carrying out. The sovereign exercises this authority in the form of a Royal Decree. The current structure of the royal household is set down in Royal decree 434/1988 and subsequent amendments to it as ordered by the king. Head of the Household[edit] The Head of the Household is responsible for the over all operation and management of the departments of the Royal Household. He holds the rank and privileges ( pay, vacation ) of a member of the council of ministers. He is the king’s most senior personal political adviser and reports directly to him. The head of the household is the primary channel of communication between the king and the various departments of the state administration. He advises the monarch on all issues pertaining to constitutional, foreign, political and military affairs. His role is analogous to the private secretary of the British sovereign. The Financial Comptroller of the household is in charge of the accounting department that prepares the annual budgets for the household’s departments. The Diplomatic Advisor to the Royal Household closely monitors international relations and developments in foreign affairs. He advises the head of household and the king in these areas. The Heads of the Household have successively been: 1975–1990 — Nicolás Cotoner, 22nd Marquess of Mondéjar, Grandee of Spain 1990–1993 — Sabino Fernández Campo, 1st Count of Latores, Grandee of Spain 1993–2002 — Fernando Almansa, 10th Viscount of Castillo de Almansa, Grandee of Spain 2002–2011 — Alberto Aza 2011–2014 — Rafael Spottorno 2014–present — Jaime Alfonsín General Secretariat[edit] The Secretary General is the Deputy Head of H.M. The King's Household and responsible for the co-ordination of all its services. He also replaces the Head of the Household in the case of absence or illness. The General Secretariat is divided into units, whose heads form the Household's management team. The Planning & Co-ordination Cabinet is the support unit for both the Head of the Household and the Secretary General, with assistance and immediate collaboration tasks in the fulfillment of the duties assigned to them. The Bureau and Activities and Programmes form part of this Cabinet. The Office of H.M. The Queen's Secretary carries out the study, preparation and implementation of all matters related to H.M. The Queen's activities, as well as those of Their Royal Highnesses The Infantas. Since 2014, the private secretary of the Queen is José Manuel de Zuleta y Alejandro, 14th duke of Abrantes.[7] The Security Service is responsible for the Royal Family’s immediate (bodyguards) security. It has a Commander and is composed of units of the State Security Forces, assigned from the Ministry of the Interior. It is also in charge of ensuring the royal family’s security during travel between secure locations, such as inspecting sewers for bombs and posting snipers on roofs. The Press and Communications office maintains contact with professionals from the media, informing them of the official activities of the Royal Family, as well as their contents and organisation. The Protocol office prepares and manages all aspects pertaining to protocol of the Royal Family’s different activities, both in Spain and abroad. The Administration, contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 58 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Royal_Household_of_Spain responseCode 3 200 