amtmhozqbepcicccbaiefcnqtohsrmjafcqszqec length 6 104461 page 9694 19th-century Argentine military officer and politician This article includes a list of references, related reading, or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (January 2013) (template removal help) Juan Lavalle Governor of Buenos Aires province In office 1 December 1828 – 26 June 1829 Preceded by Manuel Dorrego Succeeded by Juan José Viamonte Personal details Born (1797-10-17)17 October 1797 Buenos Aires, Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata Died 9 October 1841(1841-10-09) (aged 43) San Salvador de Jujuy Nationality Argentine Political party Unitarian Profession Soldier Military service Allegiance United Provinces of South America Rank General Unit Army of the Andes Battles/wars Argentine War of Independence Chilean War of Independence Peruvian War of Independence Cisplatine War Decembrist revolution Uruguayan Civil War French blockade of the Río de la Plata Argentine Civil Wars Juan Galo Lavalle (17 October 1797 – 9 October 1841) was an Argentine military and political figure. Biography[edit] Lavalle was born in Buenos Aires to María Mercedes González Bordallo and Manuel José Lavalle, general accountant of rents and tobacco for the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. In 1799, the family moved to Santiago de Chile, but returned to Buenos Aires in 1807. In 1812 Lavalle joined the Regiment of mounted grenadiers as a cadet. By 1813 he reached the grade of lieutenant and moved to the army, which under orders of Carlos María de Alvear besieged Montevideo. Lavalle fought against José Gervasio Artigas in 1815 and in the Battle of Guayabos under the command of Manuel Dorrego. In 1816 Lavalle moved to Mendoza to join the Army of the Andes of the "liberator" José de San Martín and fought in Chacabuco and the Maipú in Chile. He continued along with San Martín on his way to Peru and Ecuador and took part in the battles of Pichincha and the Riobamba, after which he became known as the Hero of Riobamba. Because of disagreements with Simón Bolívar, Lavalle returned to Buenos Aires by the end of 1823. He would later govern Mendoza Province for a short time. He then fought in the war against Brazil in command of 1,200 cavalry, with great episodes of valour in the battles of Bacacay and Ituzaingó in February 1827, beating the forces of General Abreu and being himself proclaimed General on the field of battle itself. Like many other nineteenth century Argentines prominent in public life, Lavalle was a freemason.[1] By the time he returned to Buenos Aires, the President of the United Provinces, Unitarian Bernardino Rivadavia, had resigned, and Manuel Dorrego was elected the federal governor of Buenos Aires Province. Lavalle, a Unitarian himself, led a coup to take the government and executed governor Dorrego without a trial. His government then started a reign of terror, aiming to destroy the Federal Party, but the resistance in the countryside did not recede. In 1829, the demographic growth was negative as there were more deaths than births. During that time, José de San Martín had returned from Europe. While he was in Montevideo, Lavalle offered him the government of Argentina[citation needed] as he probably was the only man capable of putting an end to the chaotic situation, because of his authority over leaders on both sides. But when he learned about the spiraling factionalist violence, San Martín realised that he would have to choose sides as the only actual way to govern, so he refused and returned instead to self-exile in Europe. The other provinces did not recognize Lavalle as the legitimate governor, and supported the rosista resistance instead. Lavalle would be defeated a short time later at the Battle of Márquez Bridge by the forces of Juan Manuel de Rosas and Santa Fe governor Estanislao López. López returned to his province, menaced by Unitarian José María Paz, who had taken power in Córdoba. Meanwhile, Rosas kept Lavalle under siege and forced him to resign with the Cañuelas pact. Juan José Viamonte was designated as interim governor, and the legislature that was removed during Lavalle's coup d'état was restored. This legislature would elect Rosas as the governor. Lavalle retired to the Banda Oriental. During the French blockade to the Río de la Plata, Fructuoso Rivera was reluctant to take military actions against Rosas, aware of his strength. Unitarians, who thought that the whole Argentine Confederation would rise against Rosas at the first chance, urged Lavalle to lead the attack, who requested not to share command with Rivera. As a result, they led both their own armies. His imminent attack was backed up by conspiracies in Buenos Aires, which were discovered and aborted by the Mazorca. Manuel Vicente Maza and his son were among the perpetrators, and were executed as a result. Pedro Castelli also organized an ill-fated uprising against Rosas, and was executed as well. Rosas did not wait to be attacked and ordered Pascual Echagüe to cross the Paraná river and take the fight to Uruguay. The Uruguayan armies split: Rivera returned to defend Montevideo, and Lavalle moved to Entre Ríos Province. He expected that the local populations would join him against Rosas and increase his forces, but he found severe resistance, so he moved instead to Corrientes Province. Governor Pedro Ferré defeated López, and Rivera defeated Pascual Echagüe, clearing for Lavalle the way to Buenos Aires. However, by that point France had given up its trust on the effectiveness of the blockade, as what was thought it would be an easy and short conflict was turning into a long war, without clear security of a final victory. France began peace negotiations with the Confederation and cut its financial support to Lavalle. He didn't find help at local towns either, and there was widespread desertion among his ranks. Buenos Aires was ready to resist his military attack, but the lack of support forced him to give up and retire from the battlefield, without starting any battle. Moving of Lavalle's corpse. Persecuted, his troops suffered constant attacks and Lavalle was forced to move further north, being defeated by Manuel Oribe in La Rioja and Tucumán. Escaping with a small group of 200 men, he was accidentally shot by a Montonera detachment which spread-shot a reputed Unitarian's house, not realizing that Juan Lavalle, the very chief of the Unitarians, was staying there. This occurred in 1841 in San Salvador de Jujuy. Afraid that his body would be desecrated by the Federales, his followers fled to Bolivia carrying Lavalle's decomposing remains with them. Hurrying over the Humahuaca pass, they finally decided to strip the skeleton by boiling it and, after burying the flesh in an unmarked grave, carry the bones, which are today buried at the La Recoleta Cemetery in Buenos Aires. A statue of the general standing on top of a long, slender column, commemorates the figure of Lavalle at Plaza Lavalle in Buenos Aires. References[edit] ^ The list includes Juan Bautista Alberdi, Manuel Alberti, Carlos María de Alvear, Miguel de Azcuénaga, Antonio González de Balcarce, Manuel Belgrano, Antonio Luis Beruti, Juan José Castelli, Domingo French, Gregorio Aráoz de Lamadrid, Francisco Narciso de Laprida , Juan Larrea, Juan Lavalle, Vicente López y Planes, Bartolomé Mitre, Mariano Moreno, Juan José Paso, Carlos Pellegrini, Gervasio Antonio de Posadas, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, and Justo José de Urquiza. José de San Martín is known to have been a member of the Lautaro Lodge; but whether the lodge was truly masonic has been debated: Denslow, William R. (1957). 10,000 Famous Freemasons. Vol. 1–4. Richmond, VA: Macoy Publishing & Masonic Supply Co Inc. Bibliography[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Juan Lavalle. The classic source on Lavalle is "History of Argentina" by Vicente Fidel López. See also Ernesto Sábato's Sobre héroes y tumbas. Government offices Preceded by José Albino Gutierrez Governor of Mendoza 1824 Succeeded by Juan de Dios Correas Preceded by Manuel Dorrego Governor of Buenos Aires Province 1828–1829 Succeeded by Juan José Viamonte v t e Argentine Civil Wars (1814–76) Parties involved (leaders) Federalists José Gervasio Artigas Mariano Vera Estanislao López Francisco Ramírez Juan Bautista Bustos Manuel Dorrego Facundo Quiroga Alejandro Heredia Pascual Echagüe Juan Manuel de Rosas Justo José de Urquiza Ricardo López Jordán Felipe Varela Chacho Peñaloza Unitarians Carlos María de Alvear Juan Martín de Pueyrredón José Rondeau Bernardino Rivadavia Juan Lavalle José María Paz Juan Esteban Pedernera Gregorio Aráoz de Lamadrid Pedro Ferré Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Battles Cepeda (1820) Navarro (1828) San Roque (1829) Márquez Bridge (1829) La Tablada (1829) Oncativo (1830) Sauce Grande (1840) Famaillá (1841) Caaguazú (1841) Laguna Limpia (1846) Caseros (1852) Cepeda (1859) Pavón (1861) Pozo de Vargas (1867) Don Gonzalo (1873) Treaties Pilar (1820) Benegas (1820) Quadrilateral (1822) Cañuelas Pact (1829) Federal Pact (1831) Protocol of Palermo (1852) San Nicolás (1852) Pact of San José de Flores (1859) See also United Provinces of the Río de la Plata League of the Free Peoples Arequito Revolt Revolution of the Restorers Unitarian League Argentine Confederation Uruguayan Civil War Freemen of the South Revolution of 11 September 1852 State of Buenos Aires Argentine Constitution of 1853 Portals: Argentina Biography Authority control databases International FAST ISNI VIAF National Spain Argentina Germany Israel United States Netherlands Other SNAC IdRef contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Juan_Lavalle responseCode 3 200 