aspagolslikirebauomsdazkbsiqwoainodsaqnq page 5629 2023 airstrike in Gaza strip Hajji Tower airstrike Part of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war Type Airstrike Location Gaza strip Date October 10, 2023; 41 days ago (2023-10-10) Executed by Israel Defense Forces Casualties 3+[1][2] killed Dozens[2] injured v t e 2023 Israel–Hamas war Timeline Outline Military engagements Hamas attack on Israel Be'eri Re'im Sderot Sufa Zikim Israel–Lebanon border clashes Houthi involvement Taba and Nuweiba Israeli invasion of Gaza Beit Hanoun Gaza City Israeli incursions into the West Bank Jenin Tulkarm Attacks Re'im music festival Killing of Shani Louk Netiv HaAsara Alumim Be'eri Ein HaShlosha Holit Kfar Aza Kissufim Nahal Oz Nir Oz Nirim Nir Yitzhak Jabalia 31 October attack Osama bin Zaid school Al-Shati Hajji Tower Palestinians evacuating Gaza Al-Ahli Arab Hospital UNRWA school Church of Saint Porphyrius Al-Ansar Mosque Yakhini Al-Fakhoora school Al-Maghazi camp Al-Buraq school Al-Shifa Hospital Ambulance airstrike Sabra mosque See also Gaza humanitarian crisis Israeli blockade of Gaza War crimes Palestinian rocket attacks on Israel Wider regional conflict Attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq and Syria On 10 October 2023, amid the 2023 Israel–Hamas war, Israeli aircraft bombed a residential building called Hajji Tower in the Gaza Strip. According to the Hamas-run Gaza media office, three journalists covering the evacuation of a nearby building were killed, and an unknown number of people were injured. Journalists were present after a resident in a nearby building had reported receiving a phone call from the Israeli military warning of an immiment strike, and the building was being evacuated. The strike hit another building closer to the journalists.[1][3] Hisham al-Nawajha sustained severe injuries and later died at Al-Shifa Medical Complex.[4] See also Outline of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war References ^ a b "Four Palestinian journalists killed in Israel Gaza strikes: Media unions". Al-Ahram. AFP. 2023-10-10. Retrieved 26 October 2023. ^ a b "Army Kills Many Palestinians, Including Journalists, In Gaza". 10 October 2023. Archived from the original on 10 October 2023. Retrieved 11 October 2023. ^ "3 Palestinian journalists killed, 1 injured, 2 missing, in Gaza-Israel conflict". cpj. October 10, 2023. Archived from the original on October 13, 2023. Retrieved October 13, 2023. ^ "Three Palestinian journalists killed in Israel's Gaza strike". newagebd. October 10, 2023. Archived from the original on October 11, 2023. Retrieved October 11, 2023. v t e 2023 Israel–Hamas war Timeline Outline Battles Hamas attack on Israel Re'im Sderot Sufa Zikim Israeli invasion of Gaza Beit Hanoun Gaza City Israel–Lebanon border clashes Israeli incursions into the West Bank Jenin incursion Tulkarm incursion 7 October massacres Re'im music festival Netiv HaAsara Alumim Be'eri Ein HaShlosha Holit Kfar Aza Kissufim Nahal Oz Nir Oz Nirim Yakhini Nir Yitzhak Attacks Health facilities Al-Ahli Arab Hospital explosion reactions Al-Shifa Hospital siege ambulance airstrike Refugee camps Jabalia airstrikes 31 October Al-Shati airstrike Al-Maghazi refugee camp airstrike Religious structures Church of Saint Porphyrius airstrike Al-Ansar Mosque airstrike Sabra mosque airstrike Schools UNRWA school airstrike Al-Fakhoora school airstrike Osama bin Zaid school airstrike Al-Buraq school airstrike Al-Falah School airstrike Others Hajji Tower airstrike Palestinians evacuating Gaza City General topics Kidnappings Israeli blockade of Gaza Palestinian rocket attacks Palestinian tunnel warfare anti-tunnel barrier Gaza–Israel conflict Iran–Israel proxy conflict Use of human shields by Hamas Houthi involvement Taba and Nuweiba drone attacks Women Effects Israeli war cabinet‎ Economic impact Evacuations Operation Ajay Northern Gaza Humanitarian crisis Mass arrests Media coverage Disinformation Pallywood War crimes Reactions Cancellation of the 2023 MTV EMA Denial of Hamas atrocities Diplomatic impact Islamic Summit Conference Kidnapped from Israel UNGAR ES-10/21 Security Council Resolution 2712 US support for Israel Arab Islamic summit Discrimination Antisemitism Riots in the North Caucasus Anti-Palestinianism Islamophobia Violent incidents Killing of Wadea al-Fayoume Killing of Paul Kessler Protests United States Writers Against the War on Gaza National March on Washington: Free Palestine March for Israel DNC protests Casualties Israel Security forces Alim Abdallah Jayar Davidov Eli Ginsberg Salman Habaka Roi Levy Izhar Peled Yonatan Steinberg Civilians Lior Asulin Hayim Katsman Ofir Libstein Shani Louk Aner Shapira Vivian Silver Yahav Winner Palestine Fighters Fouad Abu Butihan [ar] Jihad Shehadeh [ar] Tulkarm Battalion [ar] Rafat Abu Hilal Popular Resistance Hamas Omar Daraghmeh Abdul Fatah Dukhan Mohammed Dababish Ahmed Ghandour Osama Mazini Jihad Muheisen Murad Abu Murad Ayman Nofal Jamila al-Shanti Ali Al Qadi Civilians Ahmad Bahar Rashid Dabour [ar] Omar Ferwana Hiba Abu Nada Ali Nasman Ibrahim al-Astal Omar Abu Shawish Wael Al Zard Mohamed al-Dalou Mohammed Shabir Hassan Zuaiter Ibrahim Qusaya Hammam Alloh Heba Zaqout Journalists Issam Abdallah Yaniv Zohar Roy Edan Violence Deaths Related people Oded Lifshitz [he] Wael Al-Dahdouh Plestia Alaqad Nimrod Aloni Noa Argamani Hersh Goldberg-Polin Motaz Azaiza Bisan Owda Inbal Rabin-Lieberman Amir Tibon Other topics Abducted and Missing Families Forum Al Qarara Cultural Museum Al-Saqqa House [ar] Bearing Witness "Policy paper: Options for a policy regarding Gaza's civilian population" 2023 attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq and Syria Casualties of Israeli attacks on the Gaza Strip Category contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Hajji_Tower_airstrike responseCode 3 200 