astobokibgdmfkcenmweuqasuoicaimqtafgekaq length 6 216987 page 10014 Today's featured article archive 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 January February March April May June July August September October November December v t e Featured content: Featured articles ← Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Featured article candidates (FAC) Featured article criteria Featured article log Featured article statistics Featured article review (FAR) Former featured articles Unreviewed featured articles/2020 Today's featured article (TFA): This month's queue About Today's featured article Recent TFAs and statistics Current TFA requests Potential TFA requests TFA oddities Most viewed TFAs Featured articles yet to appear as TFA Script to track TFA recent changes Featured article tools: Mentoring for FAC Nominators of featured articles promoted Recent changes to featured articles Random featured article << Today's featured articles for September 2023 >> Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 September 1 Banksia dentata is a species of tree in the genus Banksia. It occurs in northern Australia, southern New Guinea and the Aru Islands. Growing as a gnarled tree up to 7 m (23 ft) high, it has leaves up to 22 cm (8.7 in) long with toothed margins. The cylindrical yellow flower spikes, up to 13 cm (5 in) high, appear between November and May, attracting honeyeaters, sunbirds, sugar gliders and insects. Flowers fall off the spikes, which swell and develop follicles containing up to two seeds each. Collected by Sir Joseph Banks in 1770, B. dentata is one of the four Banksia species published in 1782 as part of Carl Linnaeus the Younger's original description of Banksia. It is classified in Salicinae, a series, or group of species, from Australia's eastern states. Genetic studies show it to be an early offshoot within the group. It is found in savanna, associated with Pandanus and Melaleuca. After bushfires it regrows from its woody base, known as a lignotuber. (Full article...) Recently featured: Mars in fiction The Next Day Lost in Translation (film) Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch September 2 His Majesty's Theatre is a West End theatre situated in the Haymarket in the City of Westminster, London. It stands on the site of the Queen's Theatre (1705) designed by John Vanbrugh, where more than 25 operas by George Frideric Handel premiered. The present building, designed by Charles J. Phipps, was constructed in 1897 for the actor-manager Herbert Beerbohm Tree, who established the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) there. In the early 20th century, the theatre hosted spectacular productions of Shakespeare and other classical works, and premieres by such playwrights as Bernard Shaw and Noël Coward. The theatre's capacity is 1,216 seats, and it was Grade II* listed by English Heritage in 1970. LW Theatres has owned the building since 2000. The land beneath it is on a long-term lease from the Crown Estate. Andrew Lloyd Webber's The Phantom of the Opera has run at His Majesty's since 1986. It was known as "Her Majesty's Theatre" during the reigns of Victoria and Elizabeth II. (Full article...) Recently featured: Banksia dentata Mars in fiction The Next Day Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch September 3 Artist's impression of the collision SS Princess Alice sank on 3 September 1878 after a collision with the collier vessel SS Bywell Castle on the River Thames. Between 600 and 700 people died, all from the paddle steamer, in the greatest loss of life of any British inland waterway shipping accident. Princess Alice was owned by the London Steamboat Co and captained by William R. H. Grinstead. The collision occurred in an area where 75 million imperial gallons (340,000 m3) of London's raw sewage had just been released. The steamer broke into three parts, and many of her passengers drowned in the heavily polluted waters. The jury in the coroner's inquest put more of the blame on the collier; the inquiry run by the Board of Trade found that Princess Alice had not followed the right path and was culpable. In the aftermath of the sinking, changes were made to the release and treatment of sewage. The Marine Police Force were provided with steam launches, after the rowing boats used up to that point had proved insufficient. (Full article...) Recently featured: His Majesty's Theatre, London Banksia dentata Mars in fiction Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch September 4 Sekai Holland, a prominent opponent of the centre during the 1970s, pictured in 2010 The Rhodesia Information Centre (RIC) represented the Rhodesian government in Australia from 1966 to 1980. As Australia did not recognise Rhodesia's independence it operated on an unofficial basis. The centre's activities included lobbying politicians, spreading propaganda supporting white minority rule in Rhodesia and advising Australian businesses on how they could evade the United Nations sanctions that had been imposed on the country. These activities violated United Nations Security Council resolutions. The RIC had little impact, with Australian media coverage of the Rhodesian regime being almost entirely negative and the government's opposition to white minority rule in Rhodesia hardening over time. The Australian government made several attempts to force the centre to close, all of which were unsuccessful. The Zimbabwean government shut the centre in May 1980 after the end of white minority rule and later established an official embassy in Australia. (Full article...) Recently featured: Sinking of SS Princess Alice His Majesty's Theatre, London Banksia dentata Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch September 5 Kaske c. 1974 Robert Kaske (1921–1989) was an American professor of medieval literature who founded the medieval studies program at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. He published lengthy interpretations of Beowulf and of poems and passages by Dante and Chaucer. Kaske particularly enjoyed solving difficult, puzzling passages in works such as Pearl, Piers Plowman, the Divine Comedy, "The Husband's Message" and "The Descent into Hell". In 1975 he was appointed chief editor of the journal Traditio. Over the course of his career he collected what one former student termed "most of the awards and honors possible for a medieval scholar", including fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the American Council of Learned Societies, and two Guggenheim Fellowships. In 1988 Kaske published Medieval Christian Literary Imagery: A Guide to Interpretation, which colleagues called a "magisterial work". (Full article...) Recently featured: Rhodesia Information Centre Sinking of SS Princess Alice His Majesty's Theatre, London Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch September 6 John S. Marmaduke The Marmaduke–Walker duel was fought between John S. Marmaduke (pictured) and Lucius M. Walker, two generals in the Confederate States Army, on September 6, 1863, near Little Rock, Arkansas. Tensions had risen between the two officers during the Battle of Helena on July 4, 1863, when Marmaduke accused Walker of not supporting his force, then retaliated by not informing Walker of a Confederate retreat. Marmaduke was later assigned to serve under Walker during a Union advance against Little Rock. Walker did not support Marmaduke during a retreat after the Battle of Brownsville. After the Battle of Bayou Meto on August 27, Marmaduke questioned Walker's courage. A series of notes passed between the two generals by friends resulted in a duel, during which Walker received a fatal wound. Marmaduke was arrested, but later released; he survived the war and later became Governor of Missouri. Union forces captured Little Rock later in the campaign, after the Battle of Bayou Fourche. (Full article...) Recently featured: Robert Kaske Rhodesia Information Centre Sinking of SS Princess Alice Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch September 7 Stadion Crvena Zvezda, venue of the final The UEFA Euro 1976 final was the final match of Euro 1976, and was contested on 20 June 1976 by Czechoslovakia and West Germany, at Stadion Crvena Zvezda (pictured), Belgrade, Yugoslavia. Czechoslovakia initially took the lead 2–0 during the first half, but West Germany narrowed the gap with a goal before halftime. There was no scoring in the second half until the final minute of regular time, when West Germany won a corner, which was headed past Ivo Viktor by Bernd Hölzenbein at the near post, and the game went into extra time. When that resulted in no change to the score, the first penalty shoot-out in a European Championships final ensued. The first seven kicks were converted, until West Germany's fourth penalty taker, Uli Hoeneß, struck his shot over the bar. Antonín Panenka stepped up to take the fifth Czechoslovak penalty. Sepp Maier dived while Panenka gently lobbed the ball straight in the middle of the net to win the shoot-out and secure Czechoslovakia's first European Championship. (Full article...) Recently featured: Marmaduke–Walker duel Robert Kaske Rhodesia Information Centre Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch September 8 Olivia Rodrigo "Deja Vu" is a song by American singer-songwriter Olivia Rodrigo (pictured) from her debut studio album, Sour (2021). Rodrigo wrote the song with its producer, Dan Nigro. Geffen and Interscope Records released it as the album's second single on April 1, 2021. Incorporating various pop sub-genres, "Deja Vu" is about heartbreak and explores Rodrigo's anguish about her ex-partner repeating things they did in his new relationship. It received critical acclaim; many considered it a strong follow-up to "Drivers License" (2021). "Deja Vu contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 85 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Today%27s_featured_article/September_2023 responseCode 3 200 