bcdqcaimjolotccknctquojkdslsxchomqusaema length 6 254107 page 10001 Project help page This page is about how to edit Wikipedia in general. For the editing policy, see Wikipedia:Editing policy. For information on how and where you can contribute, see Wikipedia:Contributing to Wikipedia. For getting help from someone, see Wikipedia:Questions. This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, and may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:HEP H:EDIT H:E Contributing to Wikipedia (Tutorial) Policies and guidelines Editing policy Content policies Dispute resolution Simple rule set Simple style manual Introductions About Wikipedia Administration How to contribute Tutorial How-to pages Creating an account How to edit Starting an article Article wizard Talk pages Referencing Renaming Deletion Media Lists Tables Templates Copying text Style tips Wikitext Writing advice Article development Basic copyediting Layouts Avoiding mistakes Writing better Perfect article Advanced editing Community Portal Dashboard Essays Maintenance Task Center WikiProjects Editor's index Directories and indexes FAQs Help index Tools Interactive help Teahouse Help desk v t e Editing tutorial for Wikipedia Note: You can use the sandbox to experiment with page editing. Wikipedia is a wiki, meaning anyone can edit nearly any[1] page and improve articles immediately. You do not need to register to do this, and anyone who has edited is known as a Wikipedian or editor. Small edits add up, and every editor can be proud to have made Wikipedia better for all. There are two editing interfaces: the new VisualEditor (VE) and classic wikitext editing (wiki markup), which uses the Source Editor. Editing articles See also: Wikipedia:FAQ/Editing and Help:Introduction to editing with VisualEditor/1 Content style and policies See also: Wikipedia:Core content policies An encyclopedic style with a formal tone is important: straightforward, just-the-facts, instead of essay-like, argumentative, or opinionated. The goal of a Wikipedia article is to create a comprehensive and neutrally written summary of existing mainstream knowledge about a topic. Wikipedia does not publish original research. An encyclopedia is, by its nature, a tertiary source that provides a survey of information already published in the wider world. Ideally, all information should be cited and verifiable by reliable sources. Sourcing requirements are significantly stricter in articles on living persons. Edit screen(s) Editing most Wikipedia pages is simple. Wikipedia uses two interface methods: classic editing with the Source Editor through wikitext (wiki markup), and a new VisualEditor (VE). Wikitext editing using the Source Editor is chosen by clicking the Edit source tab at the top of a Wikipedia page (or on a section-edit link). This opens an editable copy of the page, showing all the wikitext used there, and the Source Editor toolbar offers simple menu options to add or change the formatting. Wikitext is used extensively throughout Wikipedia for such things as hyperlinks, tables and columns, footnotes, inline citation, special characters and so on. The Source Editor lets users toggle on 'wikitext highlighting' which uses different colours to help differentiate article text from wikitext. The VisualEditor option is intended as a user-friendly, "What You See Is What You Get" (WYSIWYG) editing aid, allowing one to edit pages without the need to learn wikitext markup. It is available only to registered, logged-in users through an opt-in choice available through personal preferences. See the VisualEditor user guide for more information. Two editing environments: wikitext and VisualEditor Edit box showing the wikitext markup. You can change the formatting and contents of the page by changing what is written in this box. Screenshot showing the same article in VisualEditor. Unlike the wikitext display, VisualEditor will show the text being edited almost as if it were already published. The Wikipedia community has developed style guidelines to make articles and facts appear in a standardized form, and Wikipedia easier to use as a whole. A basic list of wikitext can be found on the cheatsheet. An "edit toolbar" is provided just above the edit box (pictured below), which allows logged-in users (by selecting the option in personal preferences) to automatically place and format various aspects of wiki code. See Help:Wikitext for more information, remember that you can't break Wikipedia, and, although there are many protocols, perfection is not required, as Wikipedia is a work in progress. When you have finished editing, you should write a short edit summary in the small field below the edit box (pictured below). You may use shorthand to describe your changes, as described in the legend. To see how the page looks with your edits, press the "Show preview" button. To see the differences between the page with your edits and the previous version of the page, press the "Show changes" button. If you're satisfied with what you see, be bold and press the "Publish changes" button. Your changes will immediately be visible to all Wikipedia users. Edit summary (Briefly describe your changes) This is a minor edit Watch this page By publishing changes, you agree to the Terms of Use, and you irrevocably agree to release your contribution under the CC BY-SA 4.0 License and the GFDL. You agree that a hyperlink or URL is sufficient attribution under the Creative Commons license. Publish changes Show preview Show changes Cancel Note: Do not sign the edit summary line with your ~~~~ signature, as it does not work there. Minor edits Further information: Help:Minor edit The "minor edit" checkbox (circled) in the wikitext editor A check to the "minor edit" box signifies that only superficial differences exist between the version with your edit and the previous version: typo/grammar corrections, formatting and presentational changes, rearranging of text without modifying content, etc. A minor edit is a version that the editor believes requires no review and could never be the subject of a dispute. The "minor edit" option is one of several options available only to registered users. Editors should not feel that marking a change as minor devalues their effort to edit. Major edits Further information: Wikipedia:Editing policy ยง Talking and editing All editors are encouraged to be bold and strong, but there are several things that a user can do to ensure that major edits are performed smoothly. Before engaging in a major edit, a user should consider discussing proposed changes on the article discussion/talk page. During the edit, if doing so over an extended period, the {{in use}} tag can reduce the likelihood of an edit conflict. Once the edit has been completed, the inclusion of an edit summary will assist in documenting the changes. These steps will help all to ensure that major edits are well received by the Wikipedia community. A major edit should be reviewed to confirm that it is consensual to all concerned editors. Therefore, any change that affects the meaning of an article is major (not minor), even if the edit is a single word. There are no necessary terms to which you have to agree when doing major edits, but the preceding recommendations have become best practice. If you do it your own way, the likelihood of your edits being reedited may be higher. When performing a large edit, it is suggested that you periodically, and before pressing "Publish changes", copy your edits into an external text editor (preferably one without formatting, such as Windows Notepad). This ensures that in the case of a browser crash, you will not lose your work. If you are adding substantial amounts of work, it is also a good idea to publish changes in stages. Adding references Further information: Help:Referencing for beginners and Wikipedia:Citing sources Introductions: Help:Introduction to referencing with Wiki Markup/1 and Help:Introduction to referencing with VisualEditor/1 A screencast that walks through the essentials needed in citing your sources. (2:01 min) A screencast that walks through how to use the various features of RefTools. (5:03 min) Generally, sources are added directly after the facts they support at the end of the sentence and after any punctuation. Wikipedia permits editors to use any citation system that allows the reader to understand where the information came from and strongly encourages the use of inline citations to do so. Common methods of placing inline citations include footnotes, shortened footnotes and parenthetical references. Inline citations are most commonly placed by inserting a reference between <ref> ... </ref> tags, directly in the text of an article. The reference is a footnote, appearing as an inline link (e.g. [1][2]) to a particular item in a collated, numbered list of footnotes, found wherever a {{reflist}} template or <references /> tag is present, usually in a section titled "References" or "Notes". If you are creating a new page or adding references to a page that didn't previously have any, don't forget to add a references section with this display markup. There are a number of tools available to help with citation placement and formatting, some of which are internal tools and scripts, while others are available from external sites. For an example of the former, RefToolbar is a JavaScript toolbar displayed above the edit box that provides the ability to automatically fill out various citation templates and insert them in the text already formatted inside <ref> ... </ref> tags. For an example of the latter, the Wikipedia DOI and Google Books Citation Maker converts a digital object identifier (DOI) or Google Books address (URL) into a filled-out {{cite journal}} or {{cite book}} template ready to be pasted into an article. See Help:Citation tools for many others. Adding images, sounds, and videos Main page: Help:Creat contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Editing responseCode 3 200 