bcwkzidqlgmmmmtmmmbasaycvohqpavstsrsjieo page 10072 Argentine politician and general For the Argentine soccer player, see Facundo Hernán Quiroga. This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources. Find sources: "Facundo Quiroga" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (January 2013) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Facundo Quiroga" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (January 2013) (template removal help) (template removal help) Brigadier General Facundo Quiroga Portrait by Fernando García del Molino. 3º governor of La Rioja Personal details Born November 27, 1788 La Rioja, Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata (now Argentina) Died February 16, 1835(1835-02-16) (aged 46) Barranca Yaco, Córdoba, Argentina Resting place La Recoleta Cemetery Political party Federal Nickname El Tigre de los Llanos Military service Allegiance Argentine Confederation Battles/wars Desert Campaign (1833–34) Argentine Civil Wars Part of a series on Integralism Concepts Anti-communism Anti-liberalism Anti-Masonry Anti-Zionism Authoritarianism Catholic social teaching Common good Confessionalism Corporatism Counter-revolution Decentralization (Fueros Municipalism Organicism) Doctrine of the two swords Distributism (Cooperativism Guildism) Divine right of kings (Deposing power) Ecclesiastical courts "Error has no rights" Familialism Gelasian Diarchy Integral Education Integral nationalism Integral state Monarchism (Accidentalism) National Catholicism National syndicalism Natural law Panhispanism Patriotism Political traditionalism Res publica Christiana Sun and Moon allegory Social Kingship Solidarity Traditional monarchy Traditionalist Catholicism Ultramontanism Variants Brazilian Neo- Catholic French Lusitano Spanish Thinkers Aquinas Augustine Balmes Barbey d'Aurevilly Billot Blanc de Bonald Castellani Delassus Eyzaguirre Fernández Fita Fuentes Gago Gaume Gelasius I Genta Gómez González Groulx Hahn Larraín Madiran Maeztu Maurras Meinvielle Moraes Ousset Pemán Pie Pius IX Pius X le Play Pujo Raposo Reale Salgado Salvany dos Santos Sardinha Solana Taparelli Urquiza Valdivieso Vermeule Veuillot Politicians Abascal Barroso Constantine I Estévanez Ezcurra García Gómez Josias Lamamié (José) Lamamié (Juan) Louis IX Maurras Moreno Nocedal Olazábal du Pin Quiroga Sánchez Santamaria dos Santos Senante de Villèle Works Catholic Bible The City of God De regno, ad regem Cypri Treatise on Law El liberalismo es pecado Papal documents (Famuli vestrae pietatis Mirari Vos Quanta Cura Immortale Dei Rerum novarum Pascendi Dominici Gregis) El Siglo Futuro Mes idées politiques O que é o Integralismo Organizations Action Française Acción Española Brazilian Patrianovist Imperial Action Brazilian Integralist Action Brazilian Integralist Front Catholic and Royal Army Cristeros Integrist Party Popular Representation Party Sanfedisti Viva Maria See also Traditionalism Legitimism Federales Carlism Miguelism Neocatólicos Sodalitium Pianum Clerico-nationalism Clerical fascism (Estado Novo Falangism Francoism Tacuara) Nacionalismo El Yunque Person Dignity Theory Orthodox Peronism Third Position Common good constitutionalism Politics portal v t e Juan Facundo Quiroga (November 27, 1788 – February 16, 1835) was an Argentine caudillo (military strongman) who supported federalism at the time when the country was still in formation. Early years[edit] Quiroga was born in San Antonio, La Rioja, the son of a traditional but impoverished Riojan family of cattle breeders descendant of visigothic king Reccared I. He was sent at a young age to San Juan to be educated. Early in his life, he became a problem child, and escaped from school. During his wandering in the desert between San Juan and La Rioja, he purportedly encountered and killed a cougar, earning him the nickname El Tigre de los Llanos ("the Tiger of the Plains", after the Llanos, the region of his birth). After the May Revolution proclaimed the self-rule of the country, Quiroga tried to enter the independentist army. He travelled to San Luis to enter the Granaderos a Caballo Regiment, led by General José de San Martín. He was imprisoned and eventually expelled due to his bad temper. He moved back to La Rioja and became a businessman until 1820. That year the central government of Buenos Aires fell, and the province became autonomous. Governor of La Rioja and federalist leader[edit] Revolutionary flags used by Quiroga, all reading "Religion or Death". Quiroga entered the provincial army and quickly rose to its command, gaining control of the government through his charisma. During the time of the Constitutional Congress of 1824, Quiroga led its forces through the Andean provinces to oppose the centralist tendencies of President Bernardino Rivadavia and the officers of the National Army, which were carrying away a compulsory levy for the upcoming Cisplatine War (1825–1827). Advised by monarchist priest Pedro Ignacio de Castro Barros, Quiroga declared a religious war on Buenos Aires under the flag of Religión o Muerte (Religion or Death) as a reaction to various anti-clerical laws passed by the president which aimed at creating a regalist national church independent from Rome, promoted the expropriation of clerical properties by the state, suppressed religious orders and granted religious tolerance to minorities. He overthrew the centralist governor of San Juan shortly after the central government signed a series of treatises with Great Britain by which religious freedom was enforced and La Rioja mines were given in usufruct to British enterprises. A devout catholic who would quote the Bible from memory, Quiroga considered Rivadavia a "persecutor of the Church" and joined federalist rebels who would later overthrow the national government.[1] After the Cisplatine war, the officers of the returning army (of centralist tendencies, known as unitarios) deposed the federalist governments in an attempt to restore the centralised rule of Buenos Aires. General José María Paz took over its province of Córdoba and his officers campaigned through the interior provinces. Quiroga tried to oppose them, but without success, and after defeat in the Battle of La Tablada, he went into self-imposed exile in Buenos Aires. From there, where the coup was quickly defeated, Quiroga led an army towards Córdoba but was defeated in the Battle of Oncativo by Paz's more disciplined forces. Quiroga decided not to give up and tried a more ambitious attempt, marching through territories still occupied by native aboriginals, in order to bypass Córdoba, and attack directly Mendoza, where it succeeded. He took his campaign north along the Andean provinces, until he finally defeated General Gregorio Aráoz de Lamadrid, who led the last remaining unitary forces, in Salta. After the war, Quiroga established himself as one of the leaders of federalism in Argentina (along with Juan Manuel de Rosas and the caudillo of Santa Fe, Estanislao López), although he declared in his correspondence with Rosas that his ideas were in fact unitarian, but that he became a champion of federalism because people wanted federalism. Quiroga's death and its consequences[edit] Death of Facundo Quiroga. In 1834, Quiroga was appointed by the governor of Buenos Aires (and Representative of Foreign Relations of the Argentine Confederation) Manuel Vicente Maza to mediate between the governors of Tucumán and Salta, but Salta governor De la Torre died before Quiroga could arrive. He was advised that there were plans to murder him on his way back, but Quiroga, disregarding the advice, returned to Buenos Aires through the same way. At Barranca Yaco, a watering place between Córdoba and Santiago del Estero, a party of gunmen ambushed the carriage in which he travelled. Quiroga, confident in his charisma and that his mere presence and resolution would discourage the attackers, appeared through the carriage door and shouted at the gunmen, asking for their commander to confront him. The leader of the party, Santos Pérez, however, did not take chances and killed Quiroga by shooting him through the left eye. The political crime created a huge crisis in all the Confederation, forcing Maza to resign, and led to the establishment of Rosas' government. Rosas, as the Confederation leader, led the criminal investigation that ended with the prosecution of the governor of Córdoba, José Vicente Reinafé, and his brother as the intellectual perpetrators of the crime. They were hanged along with Santos Pérez in 1837 in Buenos Aires. In 1845, Domingo F. Sarmiento wrote Facundo, Civilization and Barbarism, a book that reviews the influence of caudillo leaders, which he defines as "barbarism", in the Argentine political and social life, but also as a protest to Rosas' regime, and a call for European education and life style. Quiroga is buried in La Recoleta Cemetery in Buenos Aires. In literature[edit] Jorge Luis Borges wrote an imaginary dialogue between Quiroga and Rosas in Dead Men's Dialogue, in Dreamtigers. References[edit] ^ Mario Ernesto O'Donnell, Facundo Quiroga External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Facundo Quiroga. Biography (English) Quiroga's Bio Archived 2005-08-29 at the Wayback Machine (Spanish) v t e Argentine Civil Wars (1814–76) Parties involved (leaders) Federalists José Gervasio Artigas Mariano Vera Estanislao López Francisco Ramírez Juan Bautista Bustos Manuel Dorrego Facundo Quiroga Alejandro Heredia Pascual Echagüe Juan Manuel de Rosas Justo José de Urquiza Ricardo López Jordán Felipe Varela Chacho Peñaloza Unitarians Carlos María de Alvear Juan Martín de contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Facundo_Quiroga responseCode 3 200 