beaizgbczineasjeziwobqqkgijgfqtipgsozabc length 6 204515 page 10116 Palestinian Marxist–Leninist organization Not to be confused with Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2018) (template removal help) Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine الجبهة الديموقراطية لتحرير فلسطين Leader Nayef Hawatmeh Founder Nayef Hawatmeh Yasser Abed Rabbo[1][2] Founded 1968 Split from Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine Headquarters Damascus, Syria Paramilitary wing National Resistance Brigades Ideology Communism Marxism–Leninism Maoism[3][4] Palestinian nationalism Left-wing nationalism Anti-Zionism Political position Far-left National affiliation Palestine Liberation Organization[5] Democratic Alliance List International affiliation Axis of Resistance Legislative Council 1 / 132 Party flag Website www.alhourriah.org Politics of Palestine Political parties Elections The Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP; Arabic: الجبهة الديموقراطية لتحرير فلسطين, al-Jabha al-Dīmūqrāṭiyya li-Taḥrīr Filasṭīn) is a secular Palestinian Marxist–Leninist and Maoist organization. It is also frequently referred to as the Democratic Front, or al-Jabha al-Dīmūqrāṭiyya (الجبهة الديموقراطية). It is a member organization of the Palestine Liberation Organization,[5] the Alliance of Palestinian Forces and the Democratic Alliance List. The group was founded in 1968 by Nayef Hawatmeh, splitting from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP). It maintains a paramilitary wing called the National Resistance Brigades. The DFLP's declared goal is to "create a people's democratic Palestine, where Arabs and Jews would live without discrimination, a state without classes and national oppression, a state which allows Arabs and Jews to develop their national culture."[6] One of the attacks for which the DFLP is best known is the 1974 Ma'alot massacre in which 25 schoolchildren and teachers were killed. Although the National Resistance Brigades have fighters based in both the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, these fighters have been engaged in relatively few military operations since the First Intifada. The National Resistance Brigades of the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip continue to take part in training exercises at paramilitary camps near Rafah and Khan Yunis.[citation needed] History Formation as the PDFLP Founder and current head of the DFLP Nayef Hawatmeh, a Jordanian Christian PDFLP poster, the caption of which reads: "Solidarity with the people of the Middle East in their struggle against imperialism, feudalism, Zionism and Arab reaction"[7] The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) was formed in 1967 by George Habash as a left-wing organization. The PFLP split in 1968, leading to the formation of the Popular Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PDFLP)[1] headed by Secretary-General Nayef Hawatmeh, who had been referred to as a leader of the PFLP's Maoist tendency.[8] He believed that under George Habash the PFLP had become too focused on military matters, and wanted to make the PDFLP a more grassroots and ideologically focused organization. Another split in the PFLP in 1968 led to the formation by Ahmad Jibril of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command (PFLP-GC), to focus more on the tactical implementation of armed struggle. In May–June 1969, the Palestinian Revolutionary Left League and the Palestine Popular Liberation Organization merged into PDFLP.[9] The PDFLP soon gained a reputation as the most intellectual of the Palestinian fedayeen groups, and drew heavily on Marxist–Leninist theory to explain the situation in the Middle East. Its other leaders included Yasser Abed Rabbo.[citation needed] Early years and ideological moderation The DFLP declared that its goal was to "create a people's democratic Palestine, where Arabs and Jews would live without discrimination, a state without classes and national oppression, a state which allows Arabs and Jews to develop their national culture."[10] The PDFLP's original political orientation was based on the view that Palestinian national goals could be achieved only through revolution of the masses and the Maoist strategy of "people's war". However, it would soon come around to a more moderate standpoint and while preserving a hardline attitude to armed struggle, the party began theorizing on various compromise solutions.[citation needed] DFLP was badly hit by the 1970 September crack-down in Jordan. The offices of its Amman-based publication Al-Charar was bombed and burned by Jordanian tanks.[11] From the mid-1970s, the group occupied a political stance midway between Yasser Arafat and the PLO hardliners. The DFLP condemned attacks outside Israel (such as the aircraft hijackings for which the Habash PFLP gained notoriety) and was essential in making the binational state the goal of the PLO in the 1970s, insisting on the need for cooperation between Arabs and Jews. Still, while pioneering Palestinian-Israeli peace talks through making early contact with Jewish and Israeli peace campaigners, including Matzpen, the DFLP simultaneously conducted numerous small bombings and minor assaults against Israeli targets, refusing to give up the armed struggle. The Ma'alot massacre of 1974, an attack on Israeli school in which 27 people were killed, was the group's largest attack.[12] Between Fatah and the Rejectionists This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2023) (template removal help) In 1974, the PDFLP changed its name to the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP). It was also a strong supporter of the 1974 Ten Point Program, which was accepted by the Palestinian National Council (PNC) after lobbying by Fatah and DFLP, and which cautiously introduced the concept of a two-state solution in the PLO, and led to a split in the organization leading to the formation of the Rejectionist Front, where radical organizations such as the PFLP, PFLP-GC, Palestine Liberation Front and others gathered with the backing of Syria, Libya and Iraq to oppose Arafat and the mainstream PLO stance.[citation needed] In 1974 the DFLP perpetrated a major terror attack in Israel, when attacking a local elementary school in the village of Ma'alot. Taking the school-children as hostages, 22 children aged 14–16 were killed when an army commando engaged them.[citation needed] In 1978 the DFLP temporarily switched sides and joined the Rejectionist Front after clashing with Arafat on several issues, but it would continue to serve as a mediator in the factional disputes of the PLO. In the tense situation leading up to the 1983 Fatah rebellion, during the Lebanese Civil War, the DFLP offered mediation to prevent the Syrian-backed formation of a rival Fatah leadership under Said al-Muragha (Abu Musa), the Fatah al-Intifada faction. Its efforts ultimately failed, and the PLO became embroiled in what was in effect a Palestinian civil war.[citation needed] Stagnation in the 1980s From the early 1980s the DFLP was seen as the most pro-Chinese Communist Party of the PLO member organisations.[13] The collapse of the Soviet Union and the growing Islamist trend in Palestinian society during the 1990s sapped the party of much of its popularity and resources. Chinese paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, also began to reduce the PRC's support for revolutionary struggles abroad throughout this period so as to reduce the damage it caused to trade relations with the West. The DFLP continued to cautiously support Arafat's attempts to open negotiations with Israel, but this was not uncontroversial within the membership.[citation needed] The First Intifada (1987–93) provoked a shift in Palestinian politics towards the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which proved a severe handicap for the largely diaspora-based DFLP. With the swift rise of Islamism and religious groups such as Hamas in the 1980s, the DFLP faded among the Palestinian youth, and internal confusion over the future path of the organization paralysed political decision-making.[citation needed] On 23 February 1989 three members of the DFLP were killed by the South Lebanon Army (SLA) inside the Israel's security zone in South Lebanon.[14] The killings brought the number of guerrillas killed in South Lebanon since the beginning of 1989 to thirty.[15] 1991 split This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2023) (template removal help) In 1991 the DFLP split, with a minority faction led by Yasser Abd Rabbo (who had become increasingly close to Yasser Arafat) favouring the Madrid negotiations that led initially to limited Palestinian autonomy in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Inspired by the USSR's Glasnost and the fall of the Berlin Wall, this group also favored a new political orientation, focused less on Marxism and armed struggle, and more on the democratisation of Palestinian society. It reconstituted itself as the Palestine Democratic Union (FIDA), and Abed Rabbo was officially made an advisor of Arafat.[citation needed] There were reports of armed clashes between the factions in Syria during the split. Essentially the Damascus-headquartered DFLP under Nayef Hawatmeh was able to retain its external branches, whereas the majority of the organization within Palestine, mainly on the West Bank, was taken over by FIDA.[citation needed] The Oslo period The DFLP, under Hawatmeh, joined the rejectionist groups to form the Alliance of Palestinian Forces (APF) to contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 82 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Democratic_Front_for_the_Liberation_of_Palestine responseCode 3 200 