biichqrmkeziuoxikgdeyilcugjipswegazqtkbc length 6 171669 page 10000 Help FAQs Main Page Main Page FAQ Frequently asked questions (FAQs) Index of FAQs Main FAQ Overview Readers Schools Organizations Contributing Editing Featured articles Administrators Blocks Technical Problems Article subjects Categories Categorization Copyright Forking Templates Main Page Miscellaneous Shortcut WP:MPFAQ This is a list of frequently asked questions about the Main Page of the English Wikipedia. Check out Wikipedia:FAQ/Technical for general technical questions and answers. Why am I not able to edit the Main Page? The Main Page and its associated templates are permanently protected and may only be edited by administrators. Images are protected during the period of time for which they are on the Main Page. This "cascading protection" was implemented as a result of repeated vandalism of the Main Page and keeps our welcome mat clean. If you spot a problem with content, please mention it at Wikipedia:Main Page/Errors so an administrator can fix it. However, alternative versions of the Main Page are not protected. How do I get something fixed on the Main Page? If the error is straightforward, such as a misspelling or an obvious error of fact, please place a message at Wikipedia:Main Page/Errors and an administrator will fix it. For more complicated discussions, such as about image choice or topical coverage, or issues unrelated to specific content, place a message at Talk:Main Page#General discussion. If you wish to start an in-depth discussion particular to a specific section of the Main Page, it may be more appropriate to bring it to the relevant discussion page, such as Template talk:In the news. Please centralize discussion in one location. Content on the Main Page usually defers to the supporting featured articles in case of disagreement, so it is best to achieve consensus and make any necessary changes there first. Isn't a problem on the Main Page more pressing? Why does the Main Page defer to articles so I need to change the article first? The Main Page errors page (WP:ERRORS) is not designed for overly lengthy discussion. Although it is possible to initiate such discussion at the "General discussion" section of Talk:Main Page, if there is any possibility of dispute and the problem is just carried over from the article, it is usually better to hold the discussion at the article talk page, which is a far more relevant venue and more likely to be watched by editors familiar with the article. In the event of a misleading error, changing it in the template may seem to be more immediately pressing since many people will see it on the Main Page. However, if nothing is done about the article, the problem easily could remain for a long time afterwards and be seen by even more readers. Changing the problem in the article does not usually require the assistance of an administrator, and there is no guarantee that anyone will notice the problem in the article or notice the change on the Main Page. Finally, since the presence of an error on the Main Page becomes a moot point once the article no longer is on the Main Page, any error reports are removed regardless of whether it was resolved. As the errors page is not archived, any discussion there is only retrievable by trawling through the page history. Even if it were archived, or the discussion held in Talk:Main Page (which is archived), this would not be directly connected to the article. This means that there is little likelihood that anyone trying to find discussions about an issue in the article will come across any relevant discussions that might have occurred there. How are templates used on the Main Page? Almost all text seen on the Main Page is from transcluded templates, which are also protected. The content sections that are regularly updated are "Today's featured article", "In the news", "Did you know", "On this day" (selected anniversaries), "Today's featured list" (on Mondays and Fridays) and the picture of the day. There are also templates for other areas of Wikipedia, Wikipedia's sister projects, Wikipedia languages and Main Page interwikis, which may occasionally be updated. The Main Page also contains one automatically updating variable (known as a magic word), {{NUMBEROFARTICLES}} (currently 6,746,835). There is normally little reason for administrators to edit the Main Page directly. The page history of the Main Page only shows how the overall structure and layout of the page has changed, and not changes in the content sections themselves. The histories for each section are stored separately: "In the news" "Did you know" Other areas of Wikipedia Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia languages Main Page interwikis. Histories for the other content sections ("Today's featured article", "On this day", "Today's featured list" and the picture of the day) are further confused by being stored separately for each date, or calendar date in the case of "On this day". When is the Main Page updated? Why do you have the wrong date in "On this day"? As an international community, Wikipedia uses Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), which roughly corresponds to Western European Time without daylight savings. Users on New Zealand Standard Time thus have their "Wikipedia midnight" at local noon. Content on the Main Page is generally automatically updated at UTC midnight (DYK may update more often). As a result, the calendar date displayed on the Main Page in "On this day" might not correspond to the current date in your local time zone. Why is the Main Page not updating? The servers may still have the previous day's version of the Main Page cached, so try [purging the server cache]. If purging does not seem to work, you may need to bypass your browser's cache. I think that the articles chosen for the Main Page are awful and much more important articles should be there instead. Isn't the Main Page biased towards certain topics? What can be done about it? It is true that Wikipedia has a systemic bias towards topics of interest to computer-literate males from industrialized English-speaking countries, resulting from a skew towards this demographic in its editor base. The Main Page generally reflects the bias of Wikipedia as a whole, although people tend to overlook biases that they share. It is important to remember that items selected for the Main Page (boldfaced links) are predominantly chosen based on article quality, not on how important or significant their subjects are. As a result, various featured articles that have appeared on the Main Page have occasionally been criticized for being trivial, geeky, obscure, commercial, or political. "In the news", "Did you know" and "On this day" have been criticized for bias toward a particular subject or region of the world. Specific examples of groups that have periodically accused the Main Page of blatant bias include Americans who are amazed by the continuous stream of new articles on cricket, non-Americans who are amazed at the claim that baseball is an international sport, non-Europeans who are amazed that the Eurovision Song Contest is listed on "In the news" every year, non-geeks who are amazed at the frequency of articles on computer and video games, "encyclopedia conservatives" who are amazed at the number of articles on popular culture, and "encyclopedia radicals" who are amazed at the number of articles on frightfully dull people and events from long ago. The variety of accusations of bias that have been made on Wikipedia:Main Page/Errors or Talk:Main Page is nearly endless. Each Main Page template attempts to minimize the effects of bias, but each template is largely autonomous in operation and depends strongly on what topics editors contribute to at a given time: For "Today's featured article", Wikipedia:Featured article criteria states that an article needs to be "well written, comprehensive, factually accurate, neutral, and stable" to attain the status of a featured article. It is possible for an article to meet these standards without appealing to many readers; that article may be chosen for the Main Page even if there are other featured articles that might seem more important. The most effective way to get more featured articles that you find interesting is to help write them. Constructive comments and editing assistance at Wikipedia:Peer review and Wikipedia:Featured article candidates are always appreciated. Wikipedia:In the news lists the criteria for articles to be included on "In the news". It is important to remember that Wikipedia is not a newspaper. A current event needs to be covered by major, national news organizations to warrant an article being written about it. Relatively small news items should not be put into articles, and those type of news items should thus not be displayed on the Main Page. Discussions are held at Wikipedia:In the news/Candidates to determine which items should be listed, with both the importance of the event and the quality of the associated articles (including those for recent deaths) being evaluated. All items are listed chronologically and, given the timely nature of "In the news", some items may never be listed if the articles are not sufficiently updated in time. Remember that we are all volunteers! For "On this day", the criteria at Wikipedia:Selected anniversaries states: "The selected article (boldfaced item) must not be a stub and must be a relatively complete and well-formatted article ... In other words, it should be a good example of Wikipedia content". Although there might be a number of historically significant events that happened on a specific date, the articles on these subjects might not meet this basic standard. Helping to improve these articles is always appreciated. Anniversaries of births and deaths of individuals are only considered for big round numbers: the 249th anniversary of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's birth was not mentioned while there was general agreement for a placement on the 250th anniversary. Also, in some cases an item will be c contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:FAQ/Main_Page responseCode 3 200 