bsjqpoxcoomalanmdihqweoecqiovocmtqoqkeym length 6 688535 page 10080 Historical sovereign state (1801–1922) This article is about the United Kingdom between 1801 and 1922. For the modern state, see United Kingdom. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland 1801–1922[a] Flag Coat of arms (1901–1922) Motto: "Dieu et mon droit" (French) "God and my right"[1] Anthem: "God Save the King/Queen"[2] Coat of arms in Scotland (1837–1922): The United Kingdom in 1914 Capital and largest city London 51°30′N 0°7′W﻿ / ﻿51.500°N 0.117°W﻿ / 51.500; -0.117 Demonym(s) British Government Unitary parliamentary constitutional monarchy Monarch • 1801[b]–1820[c] George III • 1820[c]–1830 George IV • 1830–1837 William IV • 1837–1901 Victoria • 1901–1910 Edward VII • 1910–1922[d] George V Legislature Parliament • Upper house House of Lords • Lower house House of Commons History • Acts of Union coming into force 1 January 1801 • Anglo-Irish Treaty 6 December 1921 • Irish Free State Constitution Act 6 December 1922[a] Population • 1911 census 45,221,000 Currency Pound sterling Irish pound (1801–26)[3] Preceded by Succeeded by Kingdom of Great Britain Kingdom of Ireland Irish Free State Irish Republic Southern Ireland United Kingdom Today part of Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Part of a series on the History of the United Kingdom Timeline Georgian period Napoleonic Wars Regency period Victorian period Edwardian period First World War Interwar period Second World War Post-war period (political) Post-war period (social) Modern history (political) Modern History (social) Topics Economic history Labour law Law enforcement Mass surveillance Jewish history LGBT history History of the monarchy Women's history Military history Taxation United Kingdom portal v t e Part of a series on the History of Ireland Chronology Prehistory Protohistory 400–800 800–1169 1169–1536 1536–1691 1691–1800 1801–1923 Timeline of Irish history Peoples and polities Gaelic Ireland Lordship of Ireland Kingdom of Ireland United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland Irish Republic Irish Free State Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland Topics Conflicts Clans Cuisine Kingdoms States Gaelic monarchs Judaism British monarchs Economic history History of the Irish language Ireland portal v t e The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland was a sovereign state in Northwestern Europe that was established by the union in 1801 of the Kingdom of Great Britain and the Kingdom of Ireland.[4] The establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922 led to the remainder later being renamed the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in 1927. The United Kingdom, having financed the European coalition that defeated France during the Napoleonic Wars, developed a large Royal Navy that enabled the British Empire to become the foremost world power for the next century. For nearly a century from the final defeat of Napoleon following the Battle of Waterloo to the outbreak of World War I, Britain was almost continuously at peace with Great Powers. The most notable exception was the Crimean War with the Russian Empire, in which actual hostilities were relatively limited.[5] However, the United Kingdom did engage in extensive offensive military operations in Africa and Asia, such as the Opium Wars with the Qing dynasty, to extend its overseas territorial holdings and influence. Beginning in earnest in the second half of the nineteenth century, the Imperial government granted increasing levels of autonomy to locally elected governments in colonies where white settlers had become demographically or politically dominant, with this process eventually resulting in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Newfoundland and South Africa becoming self-governing dominions. Although these dominions remained part of the British Empire, in practice dominion governments were permitted to largely manage their own internal affairs without interference from London, which was primarily responsible only for foreign policy. Rapid industrialisation that began in the decades prior to the state's formation continued up until the mid-19th century. The Great Irish Famine, exacerbated by government inaction in the mid-19th century, led to demographic collapse in much of Ireland and increased calls for Irish land reform. The 19th century was an era of rapid economic modernisation and growth of industry, trade and finance, in which Britain largely dominated the world economy. Outward migration was heavy to the principal British overseas possessions and to the United States. The British Empire was expanded into most parts of Africa and much of South Asia. The Colonial Office and India Office ruled through a small number of administrators who managed the units of the empire locally, while democratic institutions began to develop. British India, by far the most important overseas possession, saw a short-lived revolt in 1857. In overseas policy, the central policy was free trade, which enabled British and Irish financiers and merchants to operate successfully in many otherwise independent countries, as in South America. The British remained non-aligned until the early 20th century when the growing naval power of the German Empire increasingly came to be seen as an existential threat to the British Empire. In response, London began to cooperate with Japan, France and Russia, and moved closer to the United States. Although not formally allied with any of these powers, by 1914 British policy had all but committed to declaring war on Germany if the latter attacked France. This was realized in August 1914 when Germany invaded France via Belgium, whose neutrality had been guaranteed by London. The ensuing First World War eventually pitted the Allied and Associated Powers including the British Empire, France, Russia, Italy and the U.S. against the Central Powers of Germany, Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire. The deadliest conflict in human history up to that point, the war ended in an Allied victory in November 1918 but inflicted a massive cost to British manpower, materiel and treasure. Growing desire for Irish self-governance led to the Irish War of Independence almost immediately after the conclusion of World War I, which resulted in British recognition of the Irish Free State in 1922. Although the Free State was explicitly governed under dominion status and thus was not a fully independent polity, as a dominion it was no longer considered to be part of the United Kingdom and ceased to be represented in the Westminster Parliament. Six northeastern counties in Ireland, which since 1920 were being governed under a much more limited form of home rule, opted-out of joining the Free State and remained part of the Union under this limited form of self-government. In light of these changes, the British state was renamed the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on 12 April 1927 with the Royal and Parliamentary Titles Act. The modern-day United Kingdom is the same state, that is to say a direct continuation of what remained after the Irish Free State's secession, as opposed to being an entirely new successor state.[6] 1801 to 1820[edit] Further information: Georgian era, Regency era, and Georgian society Union of Great Britain and Ireland[edit] Main article: Acts of Union 1800 A brief period of limited independence for the Kingdom of Ireland came to an end following the Irish Rebellion of 1798, which occurred during the British war with revolutionary France. The Kingdom of Great Britain's fear of an independent Ireland siding against them with Revolutionary France resulted in the decision to unite the two countries. This was brought about by legislation in the parliaments of both kingdoms and came into effect on 1 January 1801. The Irish had been led to believe by the British that their loss of legislative independence would be compensated with Catholic emancipation, that is, by the removal of civil disabilities placed upon Roman Catholics in both Great Britain and Ireland. However, King George III was bitterly opposed to any such Emancipation and succeeded in defeating his government's attempts to introduce it.[7] Napoleonic Wars[edit] Further information: Napoleonic Wars and British Army during the Napoleonic Wars During the War of the Second Coalition (1799–1801), Britain occupied most of the French and Dutch overseas possessions, the Netherlands having become a satellite state of France in 1796, but tropical diseases claimed the lives of over 40,000 troops. When the Treaty of Amiens ended the war, Britain agreed to return most of the territories it had seized. The peace settlement was in effect only a ceasefire, and Napoleon continued to provoke the British by attempting a trade embargo on the country and by occupying the city of Hanover, capital of the Electorate, a German-speaking duchy of the Holy Roman Empire which was in a personal union with the United Kingdom. In May 1803, war was declared again. Napoleon's plans to invade Great Britain failed, chiefly due to the inferiority of his navy, and in 1805 a Royal Navy fleet led by Nelson decisively defeated the French Imperial Navy and Royal Spanish Navy at Trafalgar, which was the last significant naval action of the Napoleonic Wars.[8] In 1806, Napoleon issued the series of Berlin Decrees, which brought into effect the Continental System. This policy aimed to eliminate the threat from the British by closing French-controlled territory to foreign trade. The British Army remained a minimal threat to France; it maintained a standing strength of just 220,000 men at the height of the Napoleonic Wars, whereas the French Imperial Army exceeded a million men—in addition to the armies of numerous allies and several hundred thousand national guardsmen that Napoleon could draft into the French armies when they were needed. Although the Royal Navy effectively disrupted France's extra-continental trade—both by seizing and threatening French shipping and by seizing French colonial possessions—it could do nothing about France's trade with  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 77 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/United_Kingdom_of_Great_Britain_and_Ireland responseCode 3 200 