catioejqzgmkzelakgdmucdiugrcyouomgzqkadk length 5 92459 page 6781 Limited-overs form of the sport of cricket Part of a series on Cricket Cricket pictogram Women's cricket Forms of cricket Test cricket Men's format Women's format First-class cricket Men's format Women's format One Day International Men's format Women's format Limited overs (domestic) Limited overs cricket List A cricket Twenty20 International Men's format Women's format Twenty20 (domestic) Men's format Women's format Other forms 100-ball cricket Backyard cricket Bete-ombro Blind cricket Club cricket Crocker Deaf cricket French cricket Indoor cricket UK variant Kilikiti Plaquita Single wicket Softball cricket T10 cricket Tape ball cricket Tennis ball cricket Vigoro Village cricket International competitions ICC World Test Championship ICC Men's Test Team Rankings Cricket World Cup Women's Cricket World Cup ICC Men's T20 World Cup ICC Women's T20 World Cup ICC Champions Trophy ICC Cricket World Cup League 2 ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League Euro T20 Slam Asia Cup East Africa Premier League World Cricket League Africa Region Cricket at the Olympics Cricket at the Asian Games History of cricket History of cricket to 1725 History of cricket (1726–1750) History of cricket (1751–1775) History of cricket (1776–1800) History of cricket (1801–1825) History of women's cricket Records v t e List A cricket is a classification of the limited-overs (one-day) form of the sport of cricket, with games lasting up to eight hours. List A cricket includes One Day International (ODI) matches and various domestic competitions in which the number of overs in an innings per team ranges from forty to sixty, as well as some international matches involving nations who have not achieved official ODI status. Together with first-class and Twenty20 cricket, List A is one of the three major forms of cricket recognised by the International Cricket Council (ICC).[1] In November 2021, the ICC retrospectively applied List A status to women's cricket, aligning it with the men's game.[2][3] Status[edit] Most Test cricketing nations have some form of domestic List A competition. The scheduled number of overs in List A cricket ranges from forty to sixty overs per side, mostly fifty overs. The categorisation of cricket matches as "List A" was not officially endorsed by the International Cricket Council until 2006,[4] when the ICC announced it, along with its member associations, would be determining this classification in a manner similar to that done for first-class matches. The Association of Cricket Statisticians and Historians created this category for the purpose of providing an equivalent to first-class cricket, to allow the generation of career records and statistics for comparable one-day matches. Only the more important one-day competitions in each country, plus matches against a touring Test team, are included. The categorisation was the work of Philip Bailey. Matches were divided into three categories: List A comprised the matches to be included in the final list. List B was for matches where the players were of First-Class standard but the match was not considered to be of sufficient status (e.g. exhibition matches). List C was to collect any other matches played by a team that had at some time previously appeared in List A, thus showing that the status of such matches had not been overlooked.[5] Matches that qualify as List A[edit] One Day Internationals (ODIs) Certain other international matches Premier one-day tournaments in the 12 ICC Full Members Official matches of a touring Test team against main first-class teams Matches played in ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League and above, and previously the higher levels of the ICC World Cricket League Matches that do not qualify as List A[edit] Twenty20 cricket, including internationals, which is classified separately World Cup warm-up matches Other Tourist matches (for example, against first-class teams that are not part of the main domestic first-class competition, such as universities) Festival and friendly matches Matches not played under standard conditions (for example, more than 11 players per side) First List A match[edit] The first match retrospectively designated as a 'List A' game was played between Lancashire and Leicestershire in May 1963, in the preliminary round of the Gillette Cup.[6] Each side batted for 65 overs, and bowlers were restricted to 15 overs each.[7] See also[edit] List of List A cricket records References[edit] ^ "Types of Cricket Matches". HowTheyPlay. Retrieved 18 May 2019. ^ "ICC Board appoints Afghanistan Working Group". International Cricket Council. Retrieved 17 November 2021. ^ "ICC appoints Working Group to review status of Afghanistan cricket; women's First Class, List A classification to align with men's game". Women's CricZone. Retrieved 17 November 2021. ^ "ICC clarifies what counts and what doesn't". Cricinfo. 30 July 2006. Retrieved 20 May 2009. ^ "ListA Status". Association of Cricket Statisticians and Historians. 30 March 2015. Retrieved 12 January 2021. ^ Lancashire v Leicestershire 1963 ^ "Opening Pandora's one-day box". External source[edit] ICC clarifies what counts and what doesn't, from Cricinfo, 30 July 2006 v t e Forms of cricket International Test cricket One Day International Twenty20 International Women's Test cricket Women's One Day International Women's Twenty20 International Domestic First-class cricket Limited overs cricket List A cricket Twenty20 Women's Twenty20 Club cricket T10 cricket 100-ball cricket Indoor Indoor cricket Indoor cricket (UK variant) Others Single Wicket Double Wicket French cricket Backyard or street cricket Bete-ombro Kwik cricket Blind cricket Deaf cricket One-armed versus one-legged Kilikiti Trobriand cricket Short form cricket Tape ball cricket Tennis ball cricket Beach cricket Ice cricket Windball cricket Last man stands cricket Softball cricket v t e List A cricket domestic competitions Australia Australian domestic limited-overs cricket tournament Women's National Cricket League England & Wales One-Day Cup Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy New Zealand The Ford Trophy Hallyburton Johnstone Shield West Indies Super50 Cup Women's Super50 Cup India Vijay Hazare Trophy Deodhar Trophy Women's Senior One Day Trophy Senior Women's Challenger Trophy Pakistan Pakistan Cup Pakistan Women's One Day Cup South Africa CSA One-Day Cup CSA Provincial Competitions CSA Women's One-Day Cup Sri Lanka Premier Limited Overs Tournament Inter-Provincial Limited Over Tournament Sri Lanka Women's Division One Tournament Zimbabwe Pro50 Championship Fifty50 Challenge Bangladesh Dhaka Premier Division Cricket League Bangladesh Women's National Cricket League Ireland Inter-Provincial Cup Women's Super Series Afghanistan Ghazi Amanullah Khan Regional One Day Tournament contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/List_A_cricket responseCode 3 200 