ccnikgjisqeqnqockooaycomoirascesxckmcmmc length 6 419093 page 10001 This guideline is a part of the English Wikipedia's Manual of Style. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though it is best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page. Shortcuts WP:MOS/C MOS:C MOS:INDEX Manual of Style (MoS) Content Accessibility Biography Disambiguation pages Organizing by subject Gender identity Hidden text Infoboxes Linking Self-references Words to watch Formatting Abbreviations Capitalization Dates and numbers Pronunciation Spelling Text formatting Titles of works Images Captions Image placement Icons Images Layout Layout Lead section Tables Trivia sections Lists Lists Lists of works Road junctions Stand-alone lists By topic area Legal Legal Trademarks Arts Anime and manga Comics Blazons Film Lyrics and poetry Novels Philosophy Television Video games Visual arts Writing about fiction Music Music samples Record charts Stringed instruments Regional Specific naming conventions Canada China (and Chinese) Egypt France (and French) Hawaii India Indonesia Ireland Japan Korea Macedonia Malaysia Pakistan Philippines Poland Singapore Trinidad and Tobago Religion Islam Latter Day Saints Science Mathematics Medicine Taxonomy Chemistry Compound classes Chemicals References and external links Safety Structure drawing Sports Cue sports Snooker Related guidelines Article size Article titles Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Citing sources Hatnotes Military history Notability Signatures Subpages Talk page guidelines Template namespace Understandability User pages Wikimedia sister projects WikiProjects Overview Contents Tips v t e This is a descriptive directory of the pages which make up the Wikipedia Manual of Style. It includes only current guidelines, not proposals or historical pages, nor pages that now redirect outside the Manual of Style (e.g. WikiProjects' style-advice essays). Article content[edit] Wikipedia:Manual of Style (WP:MOS, WP:STYLE) The main page of the Manual of Style. It contains general remarks, summaries of the guidance to be found on certain other MoS pages, and fully detailed guidance on certain topics: How to deal with national varieties of English (MOS:ENGVAR) Language for section headings (MOS:HEAD) How to format quotations (MOS:QUOTE) The preferred usage of punctuation (MOS:PUNCT), the largest section specific to the main Manual of Style page Miscellaneous grammatical issues including the writing of possessives, use of pronouns, the ampersand (MOS:&), collective plurals (MOS:PLURALS), and general guidelines for dealing with foreign words and languages. Usage of images (MOS:IMAGES). Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Abbreviations (MOS:ABBR) Use of periods, disambiguation, and which abbreviations need and need not be spelled out first. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Accessibility (MOS:ACCESS) Details recommended editing practices for best web accessibility of Wikipedia. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Capital letters (MOS:CAPS) When and when not to use capitals, including all-caps (MOS:ALLCAPS). Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Captions (WP:CAPTION) Best practices for writing and formatting image captions. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Dates and numbers (MOS:NUM) Covers time and date formatting, including seasons (MOS:TIME), recommendations for numbers and their notation, which units to use and how to format and abbreviate them (MOS:UNITS), dealing with currencies (MOS:CURRENCY) and geographical coordinates (MOS:COORDS). Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Embedded lists (WP:EMBED) When to and not to use a list instead of prose within an article. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Icons (MOS:ICON) On the use of small images within text. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Layout (MOS:LAYOUT) Ordering of content within articles, structures of standard appendices (MOS:APPENDIX). Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Lead section (MOS:LEAD) Everything about the article opener, including the guidance on bolding the subject's name (MOS:BOLDTITLE) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Linking (MOS:LINKS) Everything about the best use of wikilinks. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Lists (MOS:LISTS) How and when to use lists on Wikipedia. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Lists of works (MOS:WORKS) Presenting a list of works by the article's subject. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Pronunciation (MOS:PRON) How to introduce pronunciation data in the International Phonetic Alphabet. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Proper names (MOS:PN) Details how Wikipedia:Article titles applies within the text of articles. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Self-references to avoid (MOS:SELF) How to avoid mentioning Wikipedia itself, or the fact the article is a webpage. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Spelling (MOS:SPELLING) Not a guideline per se, but a handy guide to national varieties of English. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Stand-alone lists (WP:STANDALONE) Goes into greater details than MOS:LISTS. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Tables (WP:TABLES) The use and formatting of wikitables. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Text formatting (MOS:TEXT) The use of bold (MOS:BOLD), italics (MOS:ITALICS), and font size (MOS:FONTSIZE) are all discussed here. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Trademarks (MOS:TM) Dealing with the idiosyncratic formatting of many trademarks. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Trivia sections (WP:TRIVIA) How to avoid accumulation of poorly formatted miscellaneous information. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Words to watch (MOS:WTW) Techniques for recognizing and dealing with puffery (MOS:PUFF), charged words (MOS:LABEL and MOS:CLAIM), weasel and doubtful words (MOS:WEASEL and MOS:ALLEGED), editorializing (MOS:EDITORIAL), euphemisms (MOS:EUPHEMISM), clichés (MOS:CLICHE) and rapidly dated expressions (MOS:RELTIME) are all to be found here. Items outside article text[edit] Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Article message boxes (WP:AMBOX) Legacy page describing the styling of these banner templates. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Disambiguation pages (MOS:DAB) What to include, how to format it and in which order. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Infoboxes (WP:IBX) Design of infobox templates. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Wikipedia books (WP:MOSBOOKS) The styling of books. Topic- and culture-specific guidelines[edit] Topic-specific[edit] These usually originated as project guidelines, and typically cover all of terminology, layout, conventions and formatting related to the topic at hand. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Anime and manga (MOS:ANIME) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Biography (MOS:BIO) How to deal with all the parts of the name, including post-nominal letters (MOS:INITIALS) and honorifics (MOS:HONORIFIC). Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Chemistry (MOS:CHEM) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Comics (WP:CMOS) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Cue sports (MOS:CUE) For all billiards/pool games, but see also MOS:SNOOKER for snooker-specific additions. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Figure skating (WP:FS STYLE) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Film (MOS:FILM) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Islam-related articles (MOS:ISLAM) Transliteration and terminology, religious text references Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Latter Day Saints (MOS:LDS) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Legal (MOS:LEGAL) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Mathematics (MOS:MATHS) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Medicine-related articles (MOS:MED) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Military history (MOS:MILHIST) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Music (MOS:MUSIC) Also covers musical notation (in text and images), and use of italics for classical music works Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Music samples (WP:SAMPLE) Fair-use policy on this issue, and how to present them in articles. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Novels (WP:NOVELS) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Philosophy (MOS:PHILO) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Record charts (WP:CHARTS) The ordering, presentation and sourcing of chart information Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Road junction lists (MOS:RJL) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Snooker (MOS:SNOOKER) Much of MOS:CUE also applies. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Stringed instrument tunings (MOS:TUNINGS) Spun out from MOS:MUSIC Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Television (MOS:TV) Covers television series, seasons and episodes. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Titles (MOS:TITLE) About the use of italics or quotation marks for titles of works. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Video games (MOS:VG) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Visual arts (MOS:VA) Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Writing about fiction (MOS:FICTION) How to keep the right perspective, source and present in-universe information and similar aspects of writing about fiction. Country-, region- and language-specific[edit] A number of proposed or inactive language-specific guidelines exist, but they are not listed here; there are language-specific guidelines for several languages including Korean, Chinese and Hebrew; most issues are instead covered by naming conventions. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Canada-related articles (MOS:CA) Covers mostly disambiguation, French names and sourcing population data. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/France and French-related (MOS:FR) Accents and their effects on sorting, capitalization of works, noble titles. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Hawaii-related articles (MOS:HAWAII) Capitalization and use of Hawaiian diacritics. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Indonesia-related articles (WP:ID-NAME) Naming and spelling conventions. Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Ireland-related articles (MOS:IE) Historical issues, Irish vs. English, reference to counties Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Japan-related articles (MOS:JP) Mostly issues of romanization and plural, but also terminology, addresses and related matters Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Philippine-related articles (MOS:PHIL) Choice of ethnonym, use of diacritics, disambiguation, name of subdivisions Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Poland-related articles (MOS:PL) Terminology, pronunciation, and spelling Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Singapore-related articles (MOS:SG) Mostly covers names of people Other relevant pages[edit] The following pages are not part of the Manual  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 68 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Contents responseCode 3 200 