ceqasqhcrgmmfalmqqygzeycqsqenmdqgeqqqalc length 5 89447 page 4601 Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcut WP:ETMP Main Page toolbox Yesterday November 19 Today November 20, 2023 Tomorrow November 21 TFA TFA TFA SA/OTD SA/OTD SA/OTD POTD Main Page v. POTD Main Page v. POTD Main Page v. POTD regular v. POTD regular v. POTD regular v. TFL (Monday) Main Page queue In the news candidates discussion admin instructions Did you know nominations discussion queue BotErrors Protected pages Commons media protection Associated Error reports General discussion FAQ Help CSS Sandbox CSS History Alternatives April Fools' It is currently 12:04 UTC. Purge the Main Page Purge this page The Main Page is usually updated by editing a number of pages in the Template namespace that are transcluded onto the main page. The only section that is currently hard-coded directly on page is the top "Welcome to Wikipedia" banner. The Main Page and all the templates used on it have been protected for many years, and can only be edited by administrators. Images and templates are also temporarily protected while they are featured on the Main Page via cascading protection. Changes can be suggested on Talk:Main Page if you do not have administrator access. Alternatively, you can edit the table-free version of the main page. Also see Wikipedia:Main Page alternatives for more editable main pages. Each section has its own guidelines that you should follow before editing it. These guidelines will be found on that section's talk pages, on Talk:Main Page, or on other guidelines pages. Today's featured article, Today's featured picture, and the On This Day sections automatically update every midnight Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). The Today's featured list section currently only appears on Mondays and Fridays. The Did you know section is updated every twelve hours (at 00:00 and 12:00 UTC) or twenty four hours (at 00:00 UTC). The In the news section is usually updated in real time as needed. Click the Main Page cache purge whenever a change has been made to any of the template pages displayed on the Main Page. This clears the Main Page's cache (located on the Wikimedia servers) so that non-logged-in users can see the update. The guidelines that were written for the old main page can be found at Wikipedia:Selected Articles on the Main Page. Today's featured article edit Guidelines Discussion Suggest a new entry Archive – By email – More featured articles... Did you know... edit Guidelines Discussion Make a suggestion Archive – Start a new article... In the news Edit Guidelines Discussion Make a suggestion Wikinews – Recent deaths – More current events... On this day...edit Guidelines Discussion Make a suggestion More anniversaries: October 31 November 1 November 2 Archive By email List of days of the year Today's featured list (Mondays and Fridays only) Guidelines Discussion Suggest a new entry Today's featured picture Guidelines Discussion Suggest a new entry Other areas of Wikipedia edit Wikipedia's sister projects edit Wikipedia languages edit v t e Main Page and featured content Main Page topics Errors Administrator instructions Main Page alternatives FAQ Editing Design Queue Yesterday Tomorrow History Wikipedia languages Sister projects Sandbox April Fools' Day Don't delete! Today's featured article Requests Pending requests Recent Oddities Most viewed Not yet used Featured articles Criteria Candidates Log Review Archive Statistics Former featured articles Unreviewed Did you know... Discussion Rules Guidelines Nominations Reviewing guide Preps & Queues Archive Stats In the news Error reports Nominations Discussion Admin guide General criteria Death criteria Recurring items Awards Sports Discussion Archives Candidate archives Current events portal Current events portal for sports Discussion How the Current events portal works How to archive the portal Selected anniversaries Discussion Holidays and observances All Today's featured list Submissions Statistics Previously run lists Get involved Featured lists Criteria Candidates Log Task force Removal candidates Review list Log Former featured lists Picture of the day Guidelines Unused Archive Tomorrow Featured pictures Criteria Candidates Nomination procedure Featured topics Featured topics on the main page Candidates Log Nomination procedure Criteria Removal candidates Good topics Former featured topics Featured topic questions contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 65 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Editing_the_main_page responseCode 3 200 