ciecfkesvqwijayoniiidknauixgoqmgzkqgsqyc length 6 190266 page 10023 Local level of administration in Finland Municipalities of Finland Suomen kunnat (Finnish) Finlands kommuner (Swedish) Also known as: Kaupunki, stad Category Municipality Location Finland Found in Regions Number 309 (list) (as of 2021) Populations Largest: Helsinki (pop. 657,674) Smallest: Sottunga (pop. 109) Areas Largest: Inari (17,333.65 km2) Smallest: Kauniainen (6 km2) Government Municipal council Part of a series on Administrative divisions of Finland Regions Sub-regions Municipalities NUTS:FI ISO 3166-2:FI Wellbeing services counties v t e Politics of Finland State Constitution Declaration of Independence Human rights Law enforcement Military Executive President (list) Sauli Niinistö Prime Minister (list) Petteri Orpo Government Ministries (list) Legislative Parliament Speaker: Jussi Halla-aho Judiciary General Courts Supreme Court Courts of Appeal District Courts Administrative Courts Supreme Administrative Court Regional Administrative Courts Prosecutor General Chancellor of Justice Recent elections Presidential: 2006 2012 2018 Parliamentary: 2015 2019 2023 European: 2014 2019 2024 Political parties Social Democratic Party (SDP) Finns Party (PS) National Coalition Party (KOK) Centre Party (KESK) Green League (VIHR) Left Alliance (VAS) Swedish People's Party (RKP) Christian Democrats (KD) Movement Now (LIIK) Administrative divisions Regions (Maakunnat, Landskap) Sub-regions (Seutukunnat, Ekonomiska regioner) Municipalities (Kunnat, Kommuner) Wellbeing services counties (Hyvinvointialueet, Välfärdsområde) Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs Minister: Elina Valtonen Diplomatic missions of / in Finland Ambassadors Politics of the European Union Finland portal Other countries v t e The municipalities (Finnish: kunta; Swedish: kommun) represent the local level of administration in Finland and act as the fundamental, self-governing administrative units of the country. The entire country is incorporated into municipalities and legally, all municipalities are equal, although certain municipalities are called cities or towns (Finnish: kaupunki; Swedish: stad). Municipalities have the right to levy a flat percentual income tax, which is between 16 and 22 percent, and they provide two thirds of public services. Municipalities control many community services, such as schools, health care and the water supply, and local streets. They do not maintain highways, set laws or keep police forces, which are responsibilities of the central government. Government[edit] Municipalities have council-manager government: they are governed by an elected council (kunnanvaltuusto, kommunfullmäktige), which is legally autonomous and answers only to the voters. The size of the council is proportional to the population, the extremes being 9 in Sottunga and 85 in Helsinki. A subsection of the council, the municipal executive board (kunnanhallitus), controls the municipal government and monitors the implementation of decisions of the council. Its decisions must be approved by the council. Unlike national cabinets, its composition is derived from the composition of the council, not along government-opposition lines. Furthermore, individual decisions are prepared in specialized municipal boards (lautakunta) for a council meeting, which include, for example, zoning, social assistance, and education boards. Council, executive board, and municipal board memberships are elected positions of responsibility, not full-time jobs. Remuneration depends on the municipality and position, but is generally nominal or modest: a regular council member is paid 70 euro on average on a per-meeting basis (2017).[1] Municipal managers (kaupunginjohtaja, stadsdirektör for cities, kunnanjohtaja, kommunsdirektör for other municipalities) are civil servants named by the council. The city manager of Helsinki is called ylipormestari / överborgmästare "Lord Mayor" for historical reasons. There were previously no mayors in Finland, but after a change in law, Tampere was first city to elect a mayor (pormestari / borgmästare) in 2007. The mayor is not, however, currently elected directly, but by the municipal council. The mayor acts as municipal manager and as a speaker of municipal council. Although municipalities do not have police or legislative powers, local ordinances concerning traffic can be set, and municipal parking inspectors can give parking tickets. Municipalities are legal persons and can appear in an administrative court. Likewise, the state of Finland is a separate legal person. Excluding judicial review of formal compliance to administrative law, municipalities are independent and not a part of a local state hierarchy. Municipalities cooperate in regions of Finland. State agencies have jurisdictions spanning one or more regions: each region is served by an ely-keskus (elinkeino-, liikenne- ja ympäristökeskus) on matters of employment, the economy, transport and environment, while law and environmental enforcement is handled by the local aluehallintovirasto, governing multi-region jurisdictions termed alue.-G.H- Taxation and revenue[edit] See also: Taxation in Finland Residents pay a municipal tax that is a form of income tax, which is the mainstay of the income of a municipality (42% of income). Municipal tax is nominally a flat tax that is levied from a broader population (including lower income levels) than progressive state income tax, which is collected only from medium to high income earners. However, in practice even the municipal tax is progressive due to generous deductions granted to the lowest income levels. The pre-deduction base tax varies from 16% in affluent Kauniainen to 20% or more in a number of small rural municipalities. Next to the municipal tax, municipalities receive funding from the state budget (valtionapu, 19% of income). This funding is means-tested to municipality wealth and serves to balance the differences in municipal tax revenue.[2] Besides taxes, sales revenue, fees and profit of operations also form a substantial share of municipal income (21%).[2] In 2023, taxation will be significantly changed, when new wellbeing services counties are founded. Since these are funded by the state, municipal taxes will be reduced by 12.64 percentage points from ~20 to ~7%, and state taxes will be increased correspondingly. Additionally, municipalities levy a property tax, amounting to 3.6% of income, which is comparatively low: the annual fee is 0.32-0.75% of net present value for permanent residences and 0.50-1.00% for leisure properties like summer cottages as well as undeveloped plots. This is always paid by the owner, never a tenant directly, unlike the council tax. Municipalities receive a share of corporate tax revenue (yhteisövero) from companies having a place of business in the municipality (3.8% of income). Some municipal functions receive direct funding both from the municipality and the state, e.g. AMK vocational colleges. Tasks and services[edit] Finland has an extensive welfare state, and municipalities are responsible for much of the services to that end. Tasks of the municipalities are as follows:[3] Social services Children's daycare Elderly care Disabled care Social welfare service Child protection Education (see Education in Finland) and culture Peruskoulu (primary education, grades 1–9) Lukio (gymnasiums) Ammattioppilaitos (secondary vocational schools) Ammattikorkeakoulu (tertiary vocational schools) Kansanopisto (folk high school) Public libraries Youth centres Public exercise facilities (public tracks, etc.) Infrastructure and land use Zoning Public transport Maintenance of local streets Water Energy Waste collection Environment Economic development Promotion of the local economy and employment Law enforcement Food safety inspection Animal welfare inspection Environmental protection inspection Parking enforcement Public transport payment enforcement Although municipalities are responsible for their own finances, there is much highly specific legislation and regulation that requires the services to be provided up to a standard. Thus, although municipalities have the power to voluntarily spend tax-generated income, they are required to first allocate funds to legally prescribed services. Municipalities may provide some of these services through corporations that they own or from private companies that they regulate. For example, Helsinki Regional Transport Authority (HSL) provides public transport services in the capital area. From 2023, new wellbeing services counties will take the responsibility for healthcare and social services from the municipalities. Statistics[edit] Municipalities of Finland by language (2016–present): Beige: unilingually Finnish Dark blue: unilingually Swedish Turquoise: bilingual, majority language Finnish, minority language Swedish Light blue: bilingual, majority language Swedish, minority language Finnish Wine: majority language Finnish and one or three Sami languages as minority languages As of 2020[update], there are 310 municipalities in Finland, of which 107 are cities or towns (kaupunki). Sixteen municipalities are unilingually Swedish (all in the autonomous Åland region), while 33 are bilingual: 15 with Swedish as the majority language (all but four in Ostrobothnia) and 18 with Finnish as the majority language (all but five in Uusimaa region). Four municipalities in northern Lapland (Utsjoki, Inari, Sodankylä and Enontekiö) have one or all of the three Sami languages spoken in Finland as an official language. Finnish municipalities can choose to be called either kaupunki (city or town) or kunta (small town or rural municipality). Although the Finnish Environment Institute classifies urban settlements with over 15,000 inhabitants as kaupunki,[4] municipalities can name themselves kaupunki with fewer inhabitants. There are 44,603 inhabitants in Nurmijärvi, the largest kunta in Finland, and 1,226 inhabitants in Kaskinen, the smallest kaupunki, so the kunta–kaupunki categorisa contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Municipalities_of_Finland responseCode 3 200 