ciggecssdizgcedisquirkrasqymsalqyqmopqlc page 4297 Asking questions First check these lists of frequently asked questions FAQ main page — questions about using and contributing. Administration — answers some questions related to Administrators. Article subjects — what to do about specific articles. Categories — about using Wikipedia's categories. Contributing — answers to questions commonly asked by contributors. Copyright — four most commonly asked questions about copyright. Editing — answers the most common questions about editing. Forking — how do I download and use Wikipedia content? IRC (live chat) — about "chat rooms" – real-time discussions. Organizations — editing without displaying a conflict of interest. Problems — solving problems you may encounter when browsing or editing. Readers — addresses concerns and questions readers may have. Schools — questions that teachers, librarians and administrators might have. Technical — answers some questions related to the technical workings of the site. (Miscellaneous) — questions that do not fit into any of above sections. If you can't find your question, then it's time to ask someone... Where to ask questions Where to ask factual questions Reference desk — volunteers will attempt to answer any factual question you may have. They are organized into the following subject areas: Computing Entertainment Language Humanities Mathematics Science Miscellaneous Where to ask help-related questions Help desk — the volunteers here will help you with Wikipedia-related questions. Wikipedia:Questions — another help page Wikipedia:Teahouse — friendly place for new editors to become accustomed to Wikipedia culture, ask questions, and develop community relationships. Wikipedia:Village pump (technical) — the place to ask technical questions about Wikipedia and all related technology. Wikipedia:Media copyright questions — about images, audio files, and other media. {{Help me}} — write a question or request on your user talk page, and place {{Help me}} with it, and someone will be by shortly to help you on it. Live help — ask other editors questions in real time in a Wikipedia chat room. See also Adopt-a-user — new users can find mentors here. Mentors are dedicated to answering questions and teaching. Questions and comments Requests department — for when you need assistance. v t e Wikipedia help pages Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum. FAQs (?) Reference desks (?) Noticeboards (?) Cheatsheet (?) Directories (?) About Wikipedia (?) Administration Purpose Principles Policies and guidelines What Wikipedia is not Disclaimer (parental advice) Making requests Who writes Wikipedia? Help for readers (?) FAQ Books Copyright Glossary Mobile access Navigation Other languages Searching Students Viewing media Contributing to Wikipedia (?) Advice for young editors Avoiding common mistakes Etiquette Simplified Manual of Style Simplified rule-set "Ignore all rules" "The rules are principles" Style-tips Tip of the day Your first article (article wizard) Getting started (?) Why create an account? Introductions by topic Graphics tutorials Picture tutorial IRC (live chat) tutorial VisualEditor user guide Dos and don'ts (?) Accessibility Biographies Biographies (living) Categorization Consensus Discussions Disambiguation Images Leads Links Lists References Tables Titles (of articles) How-to pages and information pages (?) Appealing blocks Article deletion Categories Citations/references Referencing for beginners Citation Style 1 Cite errors References and page numbers Convert Diff Editing Minor edit toolbar edit conflict Find sources Files Footnotes Image deletion Infoboxes Linking (link color) Logging in Merging Page name Renaming pages Redirect Passwords Email confirmation Reverting Simple vandalism cleanup Talk pages (archiving simple archiving) User contributions WP search protocol Coding (?) Wiki markup Barcharts Calculations Characters Columns Elevation Hidden text HTML Lists Magic words Music symbols Sections Sounds Tables Templates Transclusion URL Visual files Directories (?) Abbreviations Contents (Encyclopedia proper) Departments Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Guidelines Manual of Style Policies Tasks Tips Tools Missing Manual Ask for help on your talk page (?) contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Menu/Asking_questions responseCode 3 200 