ckmggqtmfexkyccazghkwieobakewqiqdcramogq length 6 226252 page 10004 Wikipedia how-to guide "WP:GD" redirects here. For the general disclaimer, see Wikipedia:General disclaimer. For the wikiproject, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Green Day. This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, and may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:GD WP:GTD WP:GAFD Deletion of a Wikipedia page removes the complete page (and all previous versions) from public view. Deletion happens when a page is unsuitable, unhelpful, or does not meet the required criteria. Two further deletion processes exist to address undesirable material that may have been added to a page or visible in a log. The deletion policy explains when deletion is acceptable. This page explains the processes available, and how deletion discussions work. You may have come here because a deletion notice of some kind was added to an article that you wrote. Please read this guide to see what happens now and how you can be involved in the decision. See also: Help:My article got nominated for deletion! and Wikipedia:Guide to image deletion Deletion discussions Deletion today Undeletion Deletion review Deletion log Request a copy of a deleted article Articles today all (sorted) closing log Templates and modules today all closing holding Files today all closing Categories today all closing speedy Redirects today all closing log Miscellany today all closing Speedy deletion candidates Proposed deletion all (sorted) BLPs Policy Process Guide Administrator guidelines v t e Summary of deletion processes[edit] Deleting an entire Wikipedia page or file: Any user may suggest deletion of a page for good cause. There are three processes available for doing this: If specific criteria are met, pages may be deleted summarily via the speedy deletion process. If these criteria are not met but the deletion is expected to be uncontroversial, a notice of proposed deletion (PROD) may be used, which results in deletion if no other editor objects. In all other cases, a "deletion discussion" takes place. This article deletion process is known as "articles for deletion" (AfD). Non-article deletions have similar processes. An "appeal" process (deletion review) also exists. Deleting specific text within a page: Undesirable text can be removed by anyone by editing the page. However, the text will remain publicly accessible in the article history. If this is unacceptable, then an administrator can permanently delete the content, and it will only be visible to administrators. This is called "revision deletion"; to request it, see how to request revision deletion. A form of extreme deletion known as Oversight also exists, which is operated by a very few specially authorized users. Users with Oversight access can often remove certain serious privacy-breaching and defamatory material so that even administrators cannot see the material. This is requested by email via requests for oversight. Overview of the AfD deletion process[edit] All text created in the Wikipedia main namespace is subject to several important rules, including three cardinal content policies (Wikipedia:Neutral point of view, Wikipedia:Verifiability, and Wikipedia:No original research) and the copyright policy (Wikipedia:Copyrights). Together, these policies govern the admissibility of text in the main body of the encyclopedia, and only text conforming to all four policies is allowed in the main namespace. A failure to conform to a neutral point of view is usually remedied through editing for neutrality, but text that does not conform to any of the remaining three policies is usually removed from Wikipedia, either by removing a passage or section of an otherwise satisfactory article or by removing an entire article if nothing can be salvaged. This guide deals with the process of addressing articles that contravene Wikipedia:Verifiability and Wikipedia:No original research, which are often listed or "nominated" on Wikipedia:Articles for deletion. Articles that violate Wikipedia:Copyrights are listed on the project page for copyright problems for further action. When an article is nominated for deletion, the Wikipedia community may discuss its merits for a period usually no less than seven days, in order to come to a public rough consensus about whether the article is unsuited to Wikipedia. Following seven days of discussion, an experienced Wikipedian will determine if a consensus was reached and will "close" the discussion accordingly. Other kinds of pages[edit] A list of similar processes for other kinds of pages, including user pages, templates, categories, and redirects, is here. General advice[edit] Pages in user space[edit] If the page is in your own user space (i.e. starts with "User:YourName/", then you can request immediate deletion of the page at any time. Simply edit the page and put the template {{db-u1}} at the top of the page. An administrator will see that the page is in your own user space and delete it. User talk subpages, with names beginning "User talk:YourName/"), can normally be deleted in the same way, but your main user talk page, named simply "User talk:YourName") with nothing else on the end, can't be deleted except under very exceptional circumstances, nor can any page whic was your user talk page but which has been moved to a new title. Please do not take it personally[edit] Please remember that the deletion process is about the appropriateness of the article for inclusion in Wikipedia. A deletion nomination is not a rejection of the author or an attack on their value as a member of the Wikipedia community. Therefore, please do not take it personally if an article you've contributed to is nominated for deletion. Over time, Wikipedians have invested a great deal of thought in the question of what may and may not be included in the encyclopedia. The cardinal article policies mentioned above form the core requirements for textual contributions to the mainspace. However, some Wikipedians have also written a number of standards and guidelines that are intended to provide guidance in specific areas; note that such guidelines cannot supersede the requirements of the above policies. Please take the time to review the standards Wikipedians abide by in evaluating content. Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not Wikipedia:Criteria for inclusion of biographies Wikipedia:WikiProject Music/Notability and Music Guidelines Wikipedia:Companies, corporations and economic information/Notability and inclusion guidelines Please be tolerant of others[edit] Please remember that AFD is a busy and repetitive place. The people who volunteer to work the AFD process may seem terse, gruff and abrupt. They are not (usually) being intentionally rude. We value civility and always try to assume good faith. However, often over a hundred articles are nominated for deletion each day. Experienced Wikipedians have been through thousands of deletion discussions and have read and thought through many of the same arguments many times before. For speed, some employ shorthands (described in the § Shorthands section below) rather than typing out the same reasoning and arguments again and again. They are trying to be efficient, not rude. Deletion discussions follow the normal Wikipedia talk page etiquette. Please be familiar with the policies of not biting the newcomers, Wikiquette, no personal attacks, biographies of living persons and civility before contributing. Sockpuppetry is not tolerated[edit] Shortcut WP:AFDSOCK A sockpuppet is an account created by a vandal or bad-faith contributor in an attempt to bias the deletion decision process. A close variation is the "meatpuppet", people recruited from outside Wikipedia to try to alter the result of a discussion (for example, if your article about a web forum is up for deletion and you post a call for other forum members to "help keep our website in Wikipedia"). Because these tactics are common, comments by new users in deletion discussions may sometimes be viewed with suspicion. These users are difficult to distinguish from legitimate new users who are interested in improving the project. If someone notes that you are a new user, please take it in the spirit it was intended—a fact to be weighed by the closing admin, not an attack on the person. The deletion decision is ultimately made at the discretion of the closing admin after considering the contribution history and pattern of comments. Civil comments and logical arguments are often given the benefit of the doubt while hostile comments are presumed to be bad-faith. Verifiable facts and evidence are welcome from anybody and will be considered during the closing process. You may edit the article during the discussion[edit] Shortcut WP:EDITATAFD See also: Wikipedia:Editing policy § Try to fix problems You and others are welcome to continue editing the article during the discussion period. Indeed, if you can address the points raised during the discussion by improving the article, you are encouraged to edit a nominated article (noting in the discussion that you have done so if your edits are significant ones). There are, however, a few restrictions upon how you may edit an article: You must not blank the article (unless it is a copyright infringement). You must not modify or remove the Articles for deletion notice (AfD notice). You should not turn the article into a redirect. A functioning redirect will overwrite the AfD notice. It may also be interpreted as an attempt to "hide" the old content from scrutiny by the community. Moving the article while it is being discussed can produce confusion (both during the discussion and when closing using semi-automated closing scripts). If you do this, please note it on the deletion discussion page, preferably both at the top of the discussion (for new participants) and as a new comment at the bottom (for the benefit of the closing administrator contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Guide_to_deletion responseCode 3 200 