cmhkoaniaiwasiiqnocipgocaqiqwmzidccewgoq length 6 230125 page 10005 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 31 March 2020 00:00, 31 March 2020 (UTC) Rain (1889) ... that Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh used slanted lines to depict rainfall in his 1889 painting Rain (shown), drawing inspiration from Japanese prints such as those by Hiroshige? ... that English judoka Samantha Lowe was selected, then deselected, then reselected for the 2002 Commonwealth Games, and went on to win a gold medal? ... that Shueisha, the publisher of Weekly Shōnen Jump, has produced a manga series in collaboration with Marvel Comics? ... that Jeffrey Erickson, who was accused of robbing banks in the Chicago metropolitan area with his wife Jill, was a former police officer in Hoffman Estates? ... that the Royal Irish Yacht Club has retained its royal title despite the establishment of the Republic of Ireland? ... that Gösta Neuwirth studied composition and musicology in Vienna, but wrote his dissertation on harmony in Schreker's opera Der ferne Klang in Berlin? ... that the Whitehall Building in New York City was developed by a company headed by the inventor of Vaseline? ... that during the first siege of Wardour Castle in 1643, Lady Blanche Arundell held out for a week with just 25 Royalist soldiers against 1,300 Parliamentarian troops? 30 March 2020 00:00, 30 March 2020 (UTC) Jessye Norman ... that soprano Jessye Norman (pictured), whose voice was described as a "grand mansion of sound", performed at U.S. presidential inaugurations and sang La Marseillaise at the French Revolution's bicentennial? ... that before its closure, locals near St Johnston railway station relied heavily for income on Irish customs officers trying to catch smugglers heading for Londonderry station? ... that history professor Hiraizumi Kiyoshi believed Emperor Jimmu to have been a real historical figure? ... that a 19th-century country house with a ruined monastery in Winchelsea, England, was put on the market for £4.5 million in 2015? ... that Peter Force's library is considered to be the most important collection of military manuscripts and maps from the American Revolution? ... that the flowering plant Gentianella anglica is found only in Great Britain? ... that after 50 years in business, S.W. Randall Toyes and Giftes is both a landmark and a stop on "Haunted Pittsburgh" tours? ... that Corona, named after Corona, is fighting corona? 29 March 2020 00:00, 29 March 2020 (UTC) Drawing from Brush's aircraft patent application ... that Mary Taylor Brush filed a 1917 patent (drawing shown) for a design to make aircraft "practically invisible when in the air"? ... that the Aberbargoed Grasslands in Wales were designated a Special Area of Conservation primarily due to their population of marsh fritillary butterflies, which had been threatened by an arson attack? ... that sculptor Dan Lam was born in a refugee camp in Morong, Philippines? ... that a deep-sea fish known as a black ruff was caught in a salmon net in the Firth of Forth and donated to the Edinburgh Museum of Science and Art in 1901? ... that the offices of the Chanin Organization in New York City's Chanin Building contained "America's finest bathroom" and a set of ornate bronze gates? ... that Japanese voice actor Shugo Nakamura, who has voiced characters in The Idolmaster SideM and other anime series, was recognized as one of the Best New Actors at the 2019 Seiyu Awards? ... that musician Finneas made a cameo appearance as an Uber driver in the music video for Tove Lo's song "Bikini Porn"? ... that at the age of 10, Sky Brown became the youngest professional skateboarder in the world? 28 March 2020 00:00, 28 March 2020 (UTC) Megan Rosenbloom ... that librarian Megan Rosenbloom (pictured), an expert in anthropodermic bibliopegy, can determine if a book is bound in human skin? ... that during the 1981 Benson & Hedges Cup Final, a domestic cricket match in England, two West Indian players set new batting and bowling records? ... that Richard J. Daronco was a United States federal judge for just over a year before he was assassinated by the father of a disgruntled plaintiff? ... that academic Paul Tempan said of the Twelve Bens mountain range in Connemara, Ireland, that "nobody seems to know exactly which are the twelve peaks in question"? ... that political scientist Elizabeth Theiss-Morse has written a book on the flexibility of the American national identity? ... that due to its similarity to the coronavirus pandemic, Warner Bros.' second most successful film of 2020 so far is 2011's Contagion? ... that while studying dance, Anca Giurchescu joined the Romanian national shooting team and won individual and team medals at the 1955 European Shooting Championships? ... that the "Cracked Bell of Trinity Church" in Ryde, England, died of a broken heart and wrote to a newspaper about it? 27 March 2020 00:00, 27 March 2020 (UTC) Caricature of Hector Berlioz by Étienne Carjat ... that besides his portrait photography, Étienne Carjat edited journals and published caricatures (example shown) in the popular press? ... that the systematic deportation of Jews to the Auschwitz concentration camp began on 26 March 1942, with a transport of 997 women and girls from Poprad, Slovakia? ... that Chiara Daraio has used a version of Newton's cradle to create "sound bullets", and walls filled with ball bearings to create one-way barriers for sound? ... that the Union Church in Hong Kong was temporarily moved to the officers' mess of the Hong Kong Volunteer Defence Corps from 1945 to 1949? ... that Senator Ted Kennedy's 1980 presidential campaign may have weakened support for incumbent U.S. president Jimmy Carter, who later lost the general election? ... that the Palazzo del Governatore di Borgo in Rome was one of the first buildings to display architect Antonio da Sangallo the Younger's artistic maturity? ... that during the American Civil War, Charles B. Norton offered to hide Peter Force's large library for fear of a Confederate attack on Washington, D.C.? ... that High Peak Borough Council dyed a lake black at Harpur Hill Quarry in Derbyshire, England, to deter swimmers from entering the caustic waters? 26 March 2020 00:00, 26 March 2020 (UTC) Swanwick Shore Strict Baptist Chapel ... that Swanwick Shore Strict Baptist Chapel (pictured), a place of worship in the borough of Fareham in Hampshire, England, was built to replace a converted wooden boatshed that flooded during high tides? ... that Kurdish nationalist Dara Tawfiq was the editor of Iraq's only independent newspaper in the early 1970s? ... that records from the National Archives at Seattle are planned to be moved to California and to Kansas City, Missouri? ... that in 1918, Edith A. Ellis advocated an all-female government with the slogan "Insist that no man shall occupy a position that a woman can fill"? ... that the U.S. has imposed sanctions on Luis Parra and six other Venezuelan politicians in relation to an alleged corruption plot? ... that Cecylia and Maciej Brogowski, a Polish Catholic couple, were posthumously recognised as Righteous Among the Nations for having sheltered a Jewish girl during the Holocaust? ... that the winged wheel on the coat of arms of the Institution of Municipal Engineers represented traffic and machinery? ... that the song "I've danced with a man, who's danced with a girl, who's danced with the Prince of Wales" was inspired by Edna Deane being asked for a dance nine times by the future Edward VIII? 25 March 2020 00:00, 25 March 2020 (UTC) Seattle Monorail red train ... that the Seattle Center Monorail began operating 58 ye contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2020/March responseCode 3 200 