cmkoagnmnomcaciceociycnewqgiomqsyqegtikc length 6 113439 page 10018 Literal meaning of an expression In linguistics and philosophy, the denotation of an expression is its literal meaning. For instance, the English word "warm" denotes the property of having high temperature. Denotation is contrasted with other aspects of meaning including connotation. For instance, the word "warm" may evoke calmness or coziness, but these associations are not part of the word's denotation. Similarly, an expression's denotation is separate from pragmatic inferences it may trigger. For instance, describing something as "warm" often implicates that it is not hot, but this is once again not part of the word's denotation. Denotation plays a major role in several fields. Within semantics and philosophy of language, denotation is studied as an important aspect of meaning. In mathematics and computer science, assignments of denotations are assigned to expressions are a crucial step in defining interpreted formal languages. The main task of formal semantics is to reverse engineer the computational system which assigns denotations to expressions of natural languages. In linguistic semantics[edit] In natural language semantics, denotations are conceived of as the outputs of the semantic component of the grammar. For example, the denotation of the word "blue" is the property of being blue and the denotation of the word "Barack Obama" is the person who goes by that name. Phrases also have denotations which are computed according to the principle of compositionality. For instance, the verb phrase "passed the class" denotes the property of having passed the class. Depending on one's particular theory of semantics, denotations may be identified either with terms' extensions, intensions, or other structures such as context change potentials.[1][2][3][4] When uttered in discourse, expressions may convey other associations which are not computed by the grammar and thus are not part of its denotation. For instance, depending on the context, saying "I ran five miles" may convey that you ran exactly five miles and not more. This content is not part of the sentence's denotation but rather pragmatic inferences arrived at by applying social cognition to its denotation.[1] Denotation, meaning, and reference[edit] Linguistic discussion of the differences between denotation, meaning, and reference is rooted in the work of Ferdinand de Saussure, specifically in his theory of semiotics written in the book Course in General Linguistics.[5] Philosophers Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell have also made influential contributions to this subject.[6] Denotation and reference[edit] Although they have similar meanings, denotation should not be confused with reference.[7] A reference is a specific person, place, or thing that a speaker identifies when using a word.[5] Vocabulary from John Searle's speech act theory can be used to define this relationship.[8] According to this theory, the speaker's action of identifying a person, place, or thing is called referring. The specific person, place, or thing identified by the speaker is called the referent. Reference itself captures the relationship between the referent and the word or phrase used by the speaker. For referring expressions, the denotation of the phrase is most likely the phrase's referent. For content words, the denotation of the word can refer to any object, real or imagined, to which the word could be applied.[1] Denotation and meaning[edit] In "On Sense and Reference", philosopher Gottlob Frege began the conversation about distinctions between meaning and denotation when he evaluated words like the German words "Morgenstern" and "Abendstern".[5] Author Thomas Herbst uses the words "kid" and "child" to illustrate the same concept.[5] According to Herbst, these two words have the same denotation, as they have the same member set; however, "kid" may be used in an informal speech situation whereas "child" may be used in a more formal speech situation. In other fields[edit] In computer science, denotational semantics is contrasted with operational semantics. In media studies terminology, denotation is an example of the first level of analysis: what the audience can visually see on a page. Denotation often refers to something literal, and avoids being a metaphor. Here it is usually coupled with connotation which is the second level of analysis, being what the denotation represents. See also[edit] Connotation Denotationalism Linguistic competence Principle of compositionality Reference Sense and reference References[edit] ^ a b c Kroeger, Paul (2019). Analyzing Meaning. Language Science Press. pp. 21–22, 172–173. ISBN 978-3-96110-136-8. ^ Coppock, Elizabeth; Champollion, Lucas (2019). Invitation to Formal Semantics (PDF). Manuscript. p. 43. ^ Heim, Irene; Kratzer, Angelika (1998). Semantics in Generative Grammar. Oxford: Wiley Blackwell. p. 14. ^ Nowen, Rick; Brasoveanu, Adrian; van Eijck, Jan; Visser, Albert (2016). "Dynamic Semantics". In Zalta, Edward (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 2020-08-11. ^ a b c d Herbst, Thomas (2010). English linguistics : a coursebook for students of English. Walter de Gruyter & Co. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton. ISBN 978-3-11-021548-9. OCLC 710790467. ^ Makin, Gideon (2000). The metaphysicians of meaning : Russell and Frege on sense and denotation. London: Routledge. ISBN 0-203-24267-X. OCLC 52111256. ^ Trask, R. L. (2007). Language and linguistics : the key concepts. Peter Stockwell (Second ed.). Abingdon [England]. pp. 51, 66–67. ISBN 978-0-415-41358-9. OCLC 75087994.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) ^ Searle, John R. (1969). Speech acts : an essay in the philosophy of language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-139-17343-8. OCLC 818781122. External links[edit] Semiotics for Beginners VirtuaLit Elements of Poetry (archived) v t e Analytic philosophy Related articles Areas of focus Metaphysics Epistemology Language Mathematics Science Turns Aretaic Linguistic Logic Classical Deviant Mathematical Non-classical Paraconsistent Philosophical Theories Anti-realism Australian realism Causal theory of reference Descriptivism Emotivism Feminism Functionalism Logical atomism Logical positivism Marxism Neurophilosophy Ordinary language Pragmatism Quietism Scientific structuralism Sense data Analytic theology Analytical Thomism Concepts Analysis (paradox of analysis) Analytic–synthetic distinction Counterfactual Natural kind Reflective equilibrium Supervenience Modality Actualism Necessity Possibility Possible world Realism Rigid designator Philosophers Noam Chomsky William Lane Craig Keith Donnellan Paul Feyerabend Gottlob Frege Edmund Gettier Jaakko Hintikka Giuseppe Peano Karl Popper Nathan Salmon Russ Shafer-Landau Ernest Sosa Barry Stroud Alfred Tarski Jan Łukasiewicz Michael Walzer Nicholas Wolterstorff Australian David Malet Armstrong David Chalmers J. L. Mackie Peter Singer J. J. C. Smart Cambridge Arif Ahmed Charlie Broad Casimir Lewy Norman Malcolm G. E. Moore Graham Priest Bertrand Russell Frank P. Ramsey Henry Sidgwick Ludwig Wittgenstein Oxford G. E. M. Anscombe J. L. Austin Michael Dummett Antony Flew Philippa Foot Peter Geach Paul Grice R. M. Hare Alasdair MacIntyre Derek Parfit Gilbert Ryle John Searle P. F. Strawson Richard Swinburne Charles Taylor Bernard Williams Timothy Williamson Logical positivists A. J. Ayer Ernest Nagel Berlin Circle Carl Gustav Hempel Hans Reichenbach Vienna Circle Rudolf Carnap Kurt Gödel Otto Neurath Moritz Schlick Harvard Roderick Chisholm Donald Davidson Daniel Dennett Nelson Goodman Christine Korsgaard Thomas Kuhn Thomas Nagel Robert Nozick Hilary Putnam W. V. O. Quine John Rawls Notre Dame Robert Audi Peter van Inwagen Alvin Plantinga Pittsburgh School Robert Brandom Patricia Churchland Paul Churchland Adolf Grünbaum John McDowell Ruth Millikan Alexander Pruss Nicholas Rescher Wilfrid Sellars Bas van Fraassen Pragmatism Susan Haack Nicholas Rescher Morton White Princeton Alonzo Church Jerry Fodor David Lewis Jaegwon Kim Saul Kripke Richard Rorty Quietism James F. Conant Alice Crary Cora Diamond Stanford School Nancy Cartwright John Dupré Peter Galison Ian Hacking Patrick Suppes Category Index v t e Formal semantics (natural language) Central concepts Compositionality Denotation Entailment Extension Generalized quantifier Intension Logical form Presupposition Proposition Reference Scope Speech act Syntax–semantics interface Truth conditions Topics Areas Anaphora Ambiguity Binding Conditionals Definiteness Disjunction Evidentiality Focus Indexicality Lexical semantics Modality Negation Propositional attitudes Tense–aspect–mood Quantification Vagueness Phenomena Antecedent-contained deletion Cataphora Coercion Conservativity Counterfactuals Cumulativity De dicto and de re De se Deontic modality Discourse relations Donkey anaphora Epistemic modality Exhaustivity Faultless disagreement Free choice inferences Givenness Crossover effects Hurford disjunction Inalienable possession Intersective modification Logophoricity Mirativity Modal subordination Opaque contexts Performatives Polarity items Privative adjectives Quantificational variability effect Responsive predicate Rising declaratives Scalar implicature Sloppy identity Subsective modification Subtrigging Telicity Temperature paradox Veridicality Formalism Formal systems Alternative semantics Categorial grammar Combinatory categorial grammar Discourse representation theory (DRT) Dynamic semantics Generative grammar Glue semantics Inquisitive semantics Intensional logic Lambda calculus Mereology Montague grammar Segmented discourse representation theory (SDRT) Situation semantics Supervaluationism Type theory TTR Concepts Autonomy of syntax Context set Continuation Conversational scoreboard Existential closure Function application Meaning postulate Monads Possible world Quantifier raising Quantization Question under discussion Semantic parsing Squiggle operator Strict conditional Type shifter Univer contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 44 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Denotation responseCode 3 200 