cmlkfgxieacqpsqimglkpsispiecgqliamhqjibq length 7 1457243 page 10016 Wikipedia project page for featured articles Reviewing featured articles Shortcuts WP:FAR WP:FARC This page is for the review and improvement of featured articles (FAs) that may no longer meet the featured article criteria. FAs are held to the current standards regardless of when they were promoted. There are three requisite stages in the process, to which all users are welcome to contribute. 1. Raise issues at the article's talk page In this step, concerned editors attempt to directly resolve issues with the existing community of article editors, and to informally improve the article. Concerned editors should give article watchers two to three weeks to respond to concerns before nominating the article for Featured article review. During this step, articles are not yet listed on this page (but they can be added to Wikipedia:Featured article review/notices given, and removed from there once posted here). 2. Featured article review (FAR) In this step, possible improvements are discussed without declarations of "keep" or "delist". The aim is to improve articles rather than to demote them. Nominators must specify the featured article criteria that are at issue and should propose remedies. The ideal review would address the issues raised and close with no change in status. Reviews can improve articles in various ways: articles may need updating, formatting, and general copyediting. More complex issues, such as a failure to meet current standards of prose, comprehensiveness, factual accuracy, and neutrality, may also be addressed. The featured article review coordinators—Nikkimaria, Casliber, and DrKay—determine either that there is consensus to close during this second stage, or that there is insufficient consensus to do so and so therefore the nomination should be moved to the third stage. 3. Featured article removal candidate (FARC) An article is never listed as a removal candidate without first undergoing a review. In this third stage, participants may declare "keep" or "delist", supported by substantive comments, and further time is provided to overcome deficiencies. Reviewers who declare "delist" should be prepared to return towards the end of the process to strike out their objections if they have been addressed. The featured article review coordinators determine whether there is consensus for a change in the status of a nomination, and close the listing accordingly. The FAR and FARC stages typically last two to three weeks, or longer where changes are ongoing and it seems useful to continue the process. Nominations are moved from the review period to the removal list, unless it is very clear that editors feel the article is within criteria. Given that extensions are always granted on request, as long as the article is receiving attention, editors should not be alarmed by an article moving from review to the removal candidates' list. To contact the FAR coordinators, please leave a message on the FAR talk page, or use the {{@FAR}} notification template elsewhere. Urgent reviews are listed here. Older reviews are stored in the archive. Table of Contents – This page: Purge cache, Checklinks, Check redirects, Dablinks v t e Featured content: Featured articles ← Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Featured article candidates (FAC) Featured article criteria Featured article log Featured article statistics Featured article review (FAR) Former featured articles Unreviewed featured articles/2020 Today's featured article (TFA): This month's queue About Today's featured article Recent TFAs and statistics Current TFA requests Potential TFA requests TFA oddities Most viewed TFAs Featured articles yet to appear as TFA Script to track TFA recent changes Featured article tools: Mentoring for FAC Nominators of featured articles promoted Recent changes to featured articles Random featured article Nominating an article for FAR The number of FARs that can be placed on the page is limited as follows: No more than one nomination per week by the same nominator. No more than five nominations by the same nominator on the page at one time, unless permission for more is given by a FAR coordinator. Nominators are strongly encouraged to assist in the process of improvement; they should not nominate articles that are featured on the main page (or have been featured there in the previous three days) and should avoid segmenting review pages. Three to six months is regarded as the minimum time between promotion and nomination here, unless there are extenuating circumstances such as a radical change in article content. Before nomination, raise issues at talk page of the article. Attempt to directly resolve issues with the existing community of article editors, and to informally improve the article over at least a two-week period. Articles in this step are not listed on this page. Place {{subst:FAR}} at the top of the talk page of the nominated article. Write "FAR listing" in the edit summary box. Click on "Publish changes". From the FAR template, click on the red "initiate the review" link. You will see pre-loaded information; please leave that text. Below the preloaded title, write which users and projects you'll notify (see step 6 below), and your reason(s) for nominating the article, specifying the FA criterion/criteria that are at issue, then click on "Publish changes". Click here, and place your nomination at the top of the list of nominated articles, {{Wikipedia:Featured article review/name of nominated article/archiveN}}, filling in the exact name of the nominated article and the archive number N. Click on "Publish changes". Notify relevant parties by adding {{subst:FARMessage|ArticleName|alt=FAR subpage}} ~~~~ (for example, {{subst:FARMessage|Superman|alt=Superman/archive1}} ~~~~) to relevant talk pages (insert article name); note that the template does not automatically create the talkpage section header. Relevant parties include main contributors to the article (identifiable through XTools), the editor who originally nominated the article for Featured Article status (identifiable through the Featured Article Candidate link in the Article Milestones), and any relevant WikiProjects (identifiable through the talk page banners, but there may be other Projects that should be notified). The Notified:message at the top of the FAR should indicate who you have notified and include a link with the date of the pre-notification given on article talk. Featured article reviews[edit] FC Barcelona[edit] Notified: Mass Message Send notifications, talk page notice noticed 2020-11-29 This 2010 FA was noticed years ago of considerable deficiencies that persist. The original nominator has been inactive for ten years. There is uncited text, unvetted text (the article was promoted with less than 5,000 words of readable prose, but now has over 10,000), a very long lead, MOS cleanup needs (image sandwiching, poorly formatted or incomplete citations, all caps, bare URLs, missing publishers), Further reading needs attention, and considering the absence of a regular curator, the article probably needs a top-to-bottom review to reveal any other problems. SandyGeorgia (Talk) 14:12, 15 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Shaylee Mansfield[edit] Notified: [1], talk page notice 2023-09-24 I first became aware of this article when it was TFA in September. I feel that it was not adequately scrutinised at FAC and that, had it been, it would not have been promoted. It's a nice article and of good GA quality, but lacks the finish of a featured article. My concerns are primarily 1b and c (comprehensive and well-researched) and secondarily 1b (neutrality). There are many major points missing from the article for it to be comprehensive—the subject's date of birth had to be removed because it was inadequately sourced; the article relies heavily on quotes for its bulk, many of which say little about the subject and without them the article is essentially a list of performances; the article contains next to no analysis of her roles; there's no background on the subject (eg the cause of her deafness, which is a big part of her notability); it contains nothing on her opinions on deafness/the deaf community/whether deafness is a disability (again, material I would expect in a biographical FA of someone notable for being a deaf actress). The sourcing is inadequate for a featured article; the bulk of the sources are gossipy entertainment websites which are not high quality reliable sources—the few high-quality sources there are are fairly thin and do not support the bulk of the article's content. Which brings me to neutrality—as I said on the talk page, because there is so little to say about the subject the article is entirely uncritical, almost hagiographical, because most of the sources boil down to "look at this cute little girl signing". I gave notice on 24 September and I had a discussion with the nominator, Pamzeis, who doesn't feel that any any significant improvements can be made. HJ Mitchell | Penny for your thoughts? 18:35, 13 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] In almost all of the sources, Mansfield or or those associated with her are quoted in the articles. This does not establish notability. And those that don't include commentary from the subject, such as The New York Times, do not even mention Mansfield's name. It seems the only sources establishing notability are TheWrap and Animation World Network regarding her role in Madagascar, but this only discusses one role and the articles are written in a somewhat promotional tone. CNET is cited twice but is not considered a high-quality source per WP:CNET. Like the nominator said, there is not one article cited that specifically discusses her career as a whole from an independent perspective. The article is unable to meet 1c—there just isn't enough "relevant literature" available. It may be a borderline deletion case. Heartfox (talk) 20:25, 13 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] By all means test the water, but I thin contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 67 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_article_review responseCode 3 200 