cqfevmteiibmhsqkhofsuavelmjigeuegalkjeqg length 6 216279 page 10011 This page is about searching Wikipedia. For navigating, see Help:Navigation § Using the search box to navigate. For adding a search input box, see mw:Extension:InputBox. "WP:LOOK" redirects here. For customising the look of Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Skin. For other uses, see WP:LOOKING and WP:LOOKSGOOD. Further information: mw:Help:CirrusSearch This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, and may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcut H:S Wikipedia uses a powerful search engine, with a search box on every page. The search box will navigate directly to a given page name upon an exact match. But, you can force it to show you other pages that include your search string by including a tilde character ~ anywhere in the query. The maximum search string is 300 characters long.[1] However, search can instantly search all 59,415,814 pages on the wiki when the search is kept to a simple word or two. Wikipedia's searches can be made domain-specific (i.e., search in desired namespaces). The search engine also supports special characters and parameters to extend the power of searches and allow users to make their search strings more specific. Advanced features of the Wikipedia search engine include multi-word proximity-searches (in which the user indicates how close the words in a phrase might be), wildcard searches, "fuzzy~" searches (handles typo-correction and questionable spelling), and several wiki-oriented operators and parameters for weighting and filtering. Search can also handle regular expressions, a sophisticated exact-string and string-pattern search tool that is not offered by most public search engines. Search can also filter results by template names used, category membership, or pages linking to a specific page. Special:Preferences offers several search options, and Wikipedia:Tools § Searching offers the setups of other users. Search box Monobook places this search-box in the left toolbar. Vector (2010) legacy skin, search box. The search box is an input box with the term "Search Wikipedia" in it. In the Vector skin, it is located in the top right corner of the screen. In Monobook, it is in the middle of the sidebar on the left of the screen. To use the search box, click in it, or jump to it, and type in your search string. To jump to the search box, "focus" your cursor to there by pressing ⇧ Shift+Alt+F. In Vector, instead of a search button, there is an icon of a magnifying glass on the right-hand end of the search box. Pressing ↵ Enter or clicking on the magnifying glass when the box is empty takes you directly to Wikipedia's search page. If your search matches a page name the search box may navigate instead of search. To get search results instead, prepend the tilde ~ character to the first word of the title. (Or choose "Search for pages containing" from the suggestions that drop down as you type.) JavaScript and skins have an effect on the search/navigate default behavior. Monobook's default is to navigate, and Vector's default is search; however, when JavaScript is on, the Vector skin will navigate. Monobook's Go will navigate, and is the default, but Monobook has a Search button. Search string Whatever you type into the search box is called the "search string". It may also be referred to as the "search query". A basic search string is simply the topic you are interested in reading about. A direct match of a basic search string will navigate you directly to Wikipedia's article that has that title. A non-match, or any other type of search string will take you to Wikipedia's search results page, where the results of your search are displayed. Terms in the search string are subject to stem matching, except for anything included between double quotation marks. You can include in your search string special characters and parameters that activate specific search capabilities. Using any of these will take you to Wikipedia's search results page with the results of your search displayed. The maximum search string is 300 characters long.[1] The format of the text that is entered is called search string syntax. Search string syntax Search is case insensitive, that is, upper and lowercase is ignored. Search "folds" character families, matching similar-looking letters across alphabets, to match foreign terms. So, you don't have to type in diacritical letters, and your terms will still match. For example, Citroen will match Citroën, and Aeroskobing matches Ærøskøbing. Characters that are not numbers or letters (punctuation marks, brackets and slashes, math and other symbols) are generally ignored. For example, Credit (finance) will return articles with the words credit and finance, ignoring the parentheses, unless an article with exact title Credit (finance) exists. Similarly, a search for the string |LT| (letters LT between two pipe symbols) will only return articles with lt. In order to search for terms that contain non-alphanumeric characters, a regex search must be used instead (using the \ escape character if required), for example insource:/\|LT\|/ will successfully return all instances of |LT|. The source text is what is searched, which is not always what is displayed on the screen. This distinction is relevant for piped links, for interlanguage links (to find links to Chinese articles, search for zh, not for Zhongwen), special characters (if ê is coded as &ecirc; it is found searching for ecirc), etc. For regex searches, see the insource: parameter below. Namespace The default search domain is the article space, but any namespace may be specified in a query. At the search results page, any number of namespaces can be specified, and users can keep those namespaces as their own default search domain. Partial namespace searches can be made by specifying the initial letters of a page name. Spaces The use of spaces is, in general, intuitive. Unnecessary spaces, and all non-alphanumeric characters except " are ignored, which makes for flexibility; it is simplest and best to avoid typing unnecessary spaces, although the tolerance for grey space simplifies copying and pasting search terms without the need for cleanup. For example, credit card is obviously reasonable; copying and pasting [[Credit(?!)card]] is equivalent and convenient; "credit card""payment card" is actually correct and minimal, but "credit card" "payment card" is a sensible equivalent. Any of the following characters will be treated as a space character: !@#$%^&()_+-=~`{}[]|\:;'<>,.?/. The double quotation mark " is not one of these characters, because it has the special purpose of specifying an exact phrase search, and - and ! can be used to exclude results if either occurs at the beginning of a word or phrase (see more below). We use the term grey-space instead of whitespace here to include the space character itself and all these characters. Multiple [grey-]spaces are equivalent to a single space. Grey-space is ignored between the words of exact-phrase searches, between adjacent items in the query, and in starting characters of the search box query. All filters can have grey-space between them without affecting search results. Most operators, such as intitle: and incategory:, ignore unnecessary spaces, or grey-space, after the colon. Where spaces are significant: single search terms cannot have embedded spaces; work space, "work space", and workspace are all different. The particular keywords prefix and insource must be followed immediately by a colon:and their arguments, without intervening [grey-]spaces. Special characters Shortcut H:SPCHAR For regex searches, see the insource: parameter below. Double quotes for exact phrase search A phrase can be matched by enclosing it in double quotes, "like this". Double quotes can define a single search term that contains spaces. For example, "holly dolly" where the space is quoted as a character, differs much from holly dolly where the space is interpreted as a logical AND. Suffixed tilde character for fuzzy search Shortcut H:FUZZY Spelling relaxation is requested by suffixing a tilde (~) like this~, with results like "thus" and "thins". It covers any two character-changes for any character except the first: it returns addition, exchange, or subtraction. This search technique is sometimes called a "sounds-like" search. For example, searching for charlie~ parker~ returns Charlie Parker, Charles Palmer, Charley Parks. Prefixed tilde character for forced search Shortcut H:FORCE To force a search rather than navigate directly to a matching page, include a tilde character ~ anywhere in the query. It always takes you to the search results page, never jumping to a single title. For example, the misspelling similiar is redirected to the Similarity article, but prefixing a tilde, ~similiar, lists pages containing that misspelling. Prefixed hyphen or exclamation point for exclusion Shortcut H:EXCLUDE Pages matching a search term can be excluded by prefixing an exclamation point (!) or a hyphen or dash (-) to the term. This is the logical NOT. For example, credit card -"credit card" finds all articles with "credit" and "card" except those with the phrase "credit card". Wildcard characters Shortcut H:WLD The two wildcard characters are * and \?, and both can come in the middle or end of a word. The escaped question mark stands for one character and the star stands for any number of characters. Because many users ask questions when searching, question marks are ignored by default, and the escaped question mark (\?) must be used for a wildcard. Non-alphabetic characters For non-alphabetic characters, regex expressions are needed. See #insource: below. Logical operators Shortcuts H:BOOLEAN H:LOPS The search engine supports limited boolean logic in searches. Logical NOT (negation) can be indicated by a "-" (minus sign) or a "!" (exclamation point) character prefixed to a s contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Searching responseCode 3 200 