cqmeccwcuiscloioagyqfgakhqfcoopisswakauq length 6 762451 page 10046 City in North Yorkshire, England This article is about the city in the United Kingdom. For other uses, see York (disambiguation). City in England York City Clockwise from the top left: Micklegate Bar; York Minster from the city walls; Lendal Bridge; an aerial view of the city; and the castle Coat of arms of York York Location within North Yorkshire Area 33.7 km2 (13.0 sq mi) Population 141,685 (2021 census) [1] • Density 4,204/km2 (10,890/sq mi) Unitary authority population 202,871 (2021 census) Unitary authority York Ceremonial county North Yorkshire Region Yorkshire and the Humber Country England Sovereign state United Kingdom Post town YORK Postcode district YO1, YO10, YO19, YO23-24, YO26, YO30-32, YO41 Dialling code 01904 Police North Yorkshire Fire North Yorkshire Ambulance Yorkshire Website york.gov.uk List of places UK England Yorkshire 53°58′N 1°05′W﻿ / ﻿53.96°N 1.08°W﻿ / 53.96; -1.08 York is a cathedral city in North Yorkshire, England, with Roman origins, sited at the confluence of the rivers Ouse and Foss. It is the county town of Yorkshire. The city has many historic buildings and other structures, such as a minster, castle, and city walls. It is the largest settlement and the administrative centre of the wider City of York district. Through the title of Duke of York, it is the namesake of New York City.[2] The city was founded under the name of Eboracum in 71 AD. It then became the capital of the Roman province of Britannia Inferior, and later of the kingdoms of Deira, Northumbria, and Scandinavian York. In the Middle Ages, it became the northern England ecclesiastical province's centre, and grew as a wool-trading centre.[3] In the 19th century, it became a major railway network hub and confectionery manufacturing centre. In the Second World War, part of the Baedeker Blitz bombed the city. Although less targeted during the war than other, more industrialised northern cities, several historic buildings were gutted and restoration took place up until the 1960s.[4] The city is one of 15 in England to have a lord mayor, and one of three to have "The Right Honourable" title affixed, the others being London's and Bristol's. Historic governance of the city was as a county corporate, not included in the county's riding system. The city has since been covered by a municipal borough, county borough, and since 1996 a non-metropolitan district (the City of York), which also includes surrounding villages and rural areas, and the town of Haxby. The current district's local council is responsible for providing all local services and facilities throughout this area. York's city proper area had a population of 141,685 at the 2021 UK census.[1] The wider district had a population of 198,100. According to 2021[update] census data, the wider district has a population of 202,800, a 2.4% increase compared to the 2011 census.[5] Toponymy[edit] The name York (Old Norse: Jórvík) is derived from the Brittonic name Eburākon (Latinised as Eboracum or Eburacum), a combination of eburos "yew tree" (compare with Welsh efwr and Breton evor, both meaning "alder buckthorn", and Old Irish ibar, Irish iobhar, iubhar, and iúr, and Scottish Gaelic iubhar) and a suffix of appurtenance *-āko(n), meaning "belonging to", or "place of" (compare Welsh -og).[6] Put together, these old words meant "place of the yew trees". (In Welsh, efrog; in Old Irish, iubrach; in Irish Gaelic, iúrach; and in Scottish Gaelic, iùbhrach). The city is called Eabhraig in Scottish Gaelic and Eabhrac in Irish—names derived from the Latin word Eboracum. A proposed alternative meaning is "the settlement of (a man named) Eburos", a Celtic personal name spelled variously in different documents as Eβουρος, Eburus and Eburius: when combined with the Celtic possessive suffix *-āko(n), the word could be used to denote the property of a man with this name.[7][6] The name Eboracum became the Anglian Eoforwic in the 7th century: a compound of Eofor-, from the old name, and -wic, meaning "village", probably by conflation of the element Ebor- with a Germanic root *eburaz ('boar'); by the 7th century, the Old English for 'boar' had become eofor. When the Danish army conquered the city in 866, it was renamed Jórvík.[8] The Old French and Norman name of the city following the Norman Conquest was recorded as Everwic (modern Norman Évèroui) in works such as Wace's Roman de Rou and as Euruic in the Domesday Book.[9][10] Jórvík, meanwhile, gradually reduced to York in the centuries after the Conquest, moving from the Middle English Yerk in the 14th century through Yourke in the 16th century to Yarke in the 17th century. The form York was first recorded in the 13th century.[3][11] Many company and place names, such as the Ebor race meeting, refer to the Latinised Brittonic, Roman name.[12] The 12th‑century chronicler Geoffrey of Monmouth, in his fictional account of the prehistoric kings of Britain, Historia Regum Britanniae, suggests the name derives from that of a pre-Roman city founded by the legendary king Ebraucus.[13] The Archbishop of York uses Ebor as his surname in his signature.[14] History[edit] Main article: History of York For a chronological guide, see Timeline of York. Early history[edit] Roman wall and the west corner tower of Eboracum. The top half is medieval. Archaeological evidence suggests that Mesolithic people settled in the region of York between 8000 and 7000 BC, although it is not known whether their settlements were permanent or temporary. By the time of the Roman conquest of Britain, the area was occupied by a tribe known to the Romans as the Brigantes. The Brigantian tribal area initially became a Roman client state, but later its leaders became more hostile and the Roman Ninth Legion was sent north of the Humber into Brigantian territory.[15] The city was founded in 71 AD, when the Ninth Legion conquered the Brigantes and constructed a wooden military fortress on flat ground above the River Ouse close to its confluence with the River Foss. The fortress, whose walls were rebuilt in stone by the VI legion based there subsequent to the IX legion, covered an area of 50 acres (20 ha) and was inhabited by 6,000 legionary soldiers. The site of the principia (HQ) of the fortress lies under the foundations of York Minster, and excavations in the undercroft have revealed part of the Roman structure and columns.[8][16] Roman Emperor Constantine the Great proclaimed Emperor at York in 306 AD. The Emperors Hadrian, Septimius Severus, and Constantius I all held court in York during their various campaigns. During his stay 207–211 AD, the Emperor Severus proclaimed York capital of the province of Britannia Inferior, and it is likely that it was he who granted York the privileges of a 'colonia' or city. Constantius I died in 306 AD during his stay in York, and his son Constantine the Great was proclaimed Emperor by the troops based in the fortress.[16][17] In 314 AD a bishop from York attended the Council at Arles to represent Christians from the province.[18] While the Roman colonia and fortress were on high ground, by 400 AD the town was victim to occasional flooding from the Rivers Ouse and Foss, and the population reduced.[19] York declined in the post-Roman era, and was taken and settled by the Angles in the 5th century.[20] Reclamation of parts of the town was initiated in the 7th century under King Edwin of Northumbria, and York became his chief city.[21] The first wooden minster church was built in York for the baptism of Edwin in 627, according to the Venerable Bede.[22] Edwin ordered the small wooden church be rebuilt in stone; however, he was killed in 633, and the task of completing the stone minster fell to his successor Oswald.[8][23] In the following century, Alcuin of York came to the cathedral school of York. He had a long career as a teacher and scholar, first at the school at York now known as St Peter's School, founded in 627 AD, and later as Charlemagne's leading advisor on ecclesiastical and educational affairs.[24] In 866, Northumbria was in the midst of internecine struggles when the Vikings raided and captured York. As a thriving Anglo-Saxon metropolis and prosperous economic hub, York was a clear target for the Vikings. Led by Ivar the Boneless and Halfdan, Scandinavian forces attacked the town on All Saints' Day. Launching the assault on a holy day proved an effective tactical move – most of York's leaders were in the cathedral, leaving the town vulnerable to attack and unprepared for battle. After it was conquered, the city was renamed from the Saxon Eoforwic to Jorvik. It became the capital of Viking territory in Britain, and at its peak boasted more than 10,000 inhabitants. This was a population second only to London within Great Britain. Jorvik proved an important economic and trade centre for the Vikings. Norse coinage was created at the Jorvik mint, while archaeologists have found evidence of a variety of craft workshops around the town's central Coppergate area. These demonstrate that textile production, metalwork, carving, glasswork and jewellery-making were all practised in Jorvik. Materials from as far afield as the Persian Gulf have also been discovered, suggesting that the town was part of an international trading network.[25] Under Viking rule the city became a major river port, part of the extensive Viking trading routes throughout northern Europe. The last ruler of an independent Jórvík, Eric Bloodaxe, was driven from the city in 954 AD by King Eadred in his successful attempt to complete the unification of England.[26] After the conquest[edit] A panorama of 15th-century York by E. Ridsdale Tate; York Castle is on the right hand side of the river, opposite the abandoned motte of Baile Hill. In 1068, two years after the Norman conquest of England, the people of York rebelled. Initially they succeeded, but upon the arrival of William the Conqueror the rebellion was put down. William at once built a wooden fortress on a motte. In  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 38 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/York responseCode 3 200 