damsscyacqwefgiaqalqnawowivkvgsacsqsmebc length 6 302220 page 10007 Mathematics teaching, learning and scholarly research A mathematics lecture at Aalto University School of Science and Technology Educational research Disciplines Evaluation History Organization Philosophy Psychology (school) Technology (electronic marking) International education School counseling Special education Female education Teacher education Core ideas Free education Right to education Curricular domains Arts Business Computer science Early childhood Engineering Language Literacy Mathematics Performing arts Science Social science Technology Vocational Methods Case method Conversation analysis Discourse analysis Factor analysis Factorial experiment Focus group Meta-analysis Multivariate statistics Participant observation v t e Mathematics Areas Number theory Geometry Algebra Calculus and analysis Discrete mathematics Logic and set theory Probability Statistics and decision sciences Relationship with sciences Physics Chemistry Geosciences Computation Biology Linguistics Economics Philosophy Education Portal v t e In contemporary education, mathematics education—known in Europe as the didactics or pedagogy of mathematics—is the practice of teaching, learning, and carrying out scholarly research into the transfer of mathematical knowledge. Although research into mathematics education is primarily concerned with the tools, methods, and approaches that facilitate practice or the study of practice, it also covers an extensive field of study encompassing a variety of different concepts, theories and methods. National and international organisations regularly hold conferences and publish literature in order to improve mathematics education. History[edit] Ancient[edit] Elementary mathematics were a core part of education in many ancient civilisations, including ancient Egypt, ancient Babylonia, ancient Greece, ancient Rome, and Vedic India.[citation needed] In most cases, formal education was only available to male children with sufficiently high status, wealth, or caste.[citation needed] The oldest known mathematics textbook is the Rhind papyrus, dated from circa 1650 BCE.[1] Pythagorean theorem[edit] Historians of Mesopotamia have confirmed that use of the Pythagorean rule dates back to the Old Babylonian Empire (20th–16th centuries BC) and that it was being taught in scribal schools over one thousand years before the birth of Pythagoras.[2][3][4][5][6] In Plato's division of the liberal arts into the trivium and the quadrivium, the quadrivium included the mathematical fields of arithmetic and geometry. This structure was continued in the structure of classical education that was developed in medieval Europe. The teaching of geometry was almost universally based on Euclid's Elements. Apprentices to trades such as masons, merchants, and moneylenders could expect to learn such practical mathematics as was relevant to their profession. Medieval and early modern[edit] Illustration at the beginning of a 14th-century translation of Euclid's Elements In the Middle Ages, the academic status of mathematics declined, because it was strongly associated with trade and commerce, and considered somewhat un-Christian.[7] Although it continued to be taught in European universities, it was seen as subservient to the study of natural, metaphysical, and moral philosophy. The first modern arithmetic curriculum (starting with addition, then subtraction, multiplication, and division) arose at reckoning schools in Italy in the 1300s.[8] Spreading along trade routes, these methods were designed to be used in commerce. They contrasted with Platonic math taught at universities, which was more philosophical and concerned numbers as concepts rather than calculating methods.[8] They also contrasted with mathematical methods learned by artisan apprentices, which were specific to the tasks and tools at hand. For example, the division of a board into thirds can be accomplished with a piece of string, instead of measuring the length and using the arithmetic operation of division.[7] The first mathematics textbooks to be written in English and French were published by Robert Recorde, beginning with The Grounde of Artes in 1543. However, there are many different writings on mathematics and mathematics methodology that date back to 1800 BCE. These were mostly located in Mesopotamia, where the Sumerians were practicing multiplication and division. There are also artifacts demonstrating their methodology for solving equations like the quadratic equation. After the Sumerians, some of the most famous ancient works on mathematics came from Egypt in the form of the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus and the Moscow Mathematical Papyrus. The more famous Rhind Papyrus has been dated back to approximately 1650 BCE, but it is thought to be a copy of an even older scroll. This papyrus was essentially an early textbook for Egyptian students. The social status of mathematical study was improving by the seventeenth century, with the University of Aberdeen creating a Mathematics Chair in 1613, followed by the Chair in Geometry being set up in University of Oxford in 1619 and the Lucasian Chair of Mathematics being established by the University of Cambridge in 1662. Modern[edit] In the 18th and 19th centuries, the Industrial Revolution led to an enormous increase in urban populations. Basic numeracy skills, such as the ability to tell the time, count money, and carry out simple arithmetic, became essential in this new urban lifestyle. Within the new public education systems, mathematics became a central part of the curriculum from an early age. By the twentieth century, mathematics was part of the core curriculum in all developed countries. During the twentieth century, mathematics education was established as an independent field of research. Main events in this development include the following: In 1893, a Chair in mathematics education was created at the University of Göttingen, under the administration of Felix Klein. The International Commission on Mathematical Instruction (ICMI) was founded in 1908, and Felix Klein became the first president of the organisation. The professional periodical literature on mathematics education in the United States had generated more than 4,000 articles after 1920, so in 1941 William L. Schaaf published a classified index, sorting them into their various subjects.[9] A renewed interest in mathematics education emerged in the 1960s, and the International Commission was revitalized. In 1968, the Shell Centre for Mathematical Education was established in Nottingham. The first International Congress on Mathematical Education (ICME) was held in Lyon in 1969. The second congress was in Exeter in 1972, and after that, it has been held every four years. In the 20th century, the cultural impact of the "electronic age" (McLuhan) was also taken up by educational theory and the teaching of mathematics. While previous approach focused on "working with specialized 'problems' in arithmetic", the emerging structural approach to knowledge had "small children meditating about number theory and 'sets'."[10] Objectives[edit] Boy doing sums, Guinea-Bissau, 1974 At different times and in different cultures and countries, mathematics education has attempted to achieve a variety of different objectives. These objectives have included: The teaching and learning of basic numeracy skills to all students[11] The teaching of practical mathematics (arithmetic, elementary algebra, plane and solid geometry, trigonometry, probability, statistics) to most students, to equip them to follow a trade or craft and to understand mathematics commonly used in news and Internet (such as percentages, charts, probability, and statistics) The teaching of abstract mathematical concepts (such as set and function) at an early age The teaching of selected areas of mathematics (such as Euclidean geometry)[12] as an example of an axiomatic system[13] and a model of deductive reasoning The teaching of selected areas of mathematics (such as calculus) as an example of the intellectual achievements of the modern world The teaching of advanced mathematics to those students who wish to follow a career in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields The teaching of heuristics[14] and other problem-solving strategies to solve non-routine problems The teaching of mathematics in social sciences and actuarial sciences, as well as in some selected arts under liberal arts education in liberal arts colleges or universities Methods[edit] The method or methods used in any particular context are largely determined by the objectives that the relevant educational system is trying to achieve. Methods of teaching mathematics include the following: Games can motivate students to improve skills that are usually learned by rote. In "Number Bingo," players roll 3 dice, then perform basic mathematical operations on those numbers to get a new number, which they cover on the board trying to cover 4 squares in a row. This game was played at a "Discovery Day" organized by Big Brother Mouse in Laos. Computer-based math: an approach based on the use of mathematical software as the primary tool of computation. Computer-based mathematics education: involves the use of computers to teach mathematics. Mobile applications have also been developed to help students learn mathematics.[15][16][17] Classical education: the teaching of mathematics within the quadrivium, part of the classical education curriculum of the Middle Ages, which was typically based on Euclid's Elements taught as a paradigm of deductive reasoning.[18] Conventional approach: the gradual and systematic guiding through the hierarchy of mathematical notions, ideas and techniques. Starts with arithmetic and is followed by Euclidean geometry and elementary algebra taught concurrently. Requires the instructor to be well informed about elementary mathematics since didactic and curriculum decisions are often dictated by the logic of the subj contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Mathematics_education responseCode 3 200 