dcbmraymwkdetqfcsceilsfocoqicgbsyorchswg length 5 53589 page 2307 Introduction Readers How to report a problem with an article, or find out more information. Article subjects Problems with articles about you, your company, or somebody you represent. Licensing How to copy Wikipedia's information, donate your own, or report unlicensed use of your information. Donors Find out about the process, how to donate, and information about how your money is spent. Press and partnerships If you're a member of the press looking to contact Wikipedia, or have a business proposal for us. Back to main page Some of our volunteers. Welcome! Welcome to Wikipedia! Wikipedia is written almost exclusively by volunteers — people from across the world, just like you. This means that sometimes it contains incorrect information, either accidentally or deliberately. If you find some incorrect information, there are a few things you can do. First, you can fix it yourself! Anyone can edit Wikipedia. Just hit the "edit" button on the top right of the page, make the correction, and hit "Publish changes". If you want to learn more about editing, try our help pages. If you can't or don't want to fix an error, your best approach is to leave a note at the talk page of the article explaining the problem. For vandalism, it is best just to fix it directly yourself; however, if you cannot fix it, you can email info-en-vwikimedia.org and include the address or title of the article and a description of the vandalism. You can also email the Wikipedia Volunteer Response Team at info-en-owikimedia.org, although we may not be able to assist with all suggestions. That list is managed by a small group of volunteers. If you do email, please include the address or title of the article and a description of the issue. Note that this volunteer team cannot assist you in writing entirely new articles, answering questions about things not found on Wikipedia, or resolving disputes about content. If we don't have an article on what you're looking for, you can add it to the list of requested articles. This unfortunately doesn't necessarily mean that it will be written immediately, or ever. If we do have an article but it doesn't include what you were looking for, or you just want the answer to a specific question, you can ask at the reference desk: our volunteers are always happy to help! contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 64 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us_-_Readers responseCode 3 200 