dcuipgrapejcnqdkhatsfqgixitqaciegauomgig length 6 180003 page 10008 Etymological encyclopedia compiled by Isidore of Seville Etymologiae Page of Etymologiae, Carolingian manuscript (8th century), Brussels, Royal Library of Belgium Author Isidore of Seville Country Visigothic Kingdom (Spain) Subject General knowledge, Etymology Genre Encyclopaedia Publication date c. 600–625 Pages 20 books Etymologiae (Latin for The Etymologies), also known as the Origines (Origins) and usually abbreviated Orig., is an etymological encyclopedia compiled by Isidore of Seville (c. 560–636), an influential Christian bishop, towards the end of his life. Isidore was encouraged to write the book by his friend Braulio, Bishop of Saragossa. The Etymologies summarized and organized a wealth of knowledge from hundreds of classical sources; three of its books are derived largely from Pliny the Elder's Natural History. Isidore acknowledges Pliny, but not his other principal sources, namely Cassiodorus, Servius, and Gaius Julius Solinus. Etymologiae covers an encyclopedic range of topics. Etymology, the origins of words, is prominent, but the work also covers, among other things, grammar, rhetoric, mathematics, geometry, music, astronomy, medicine, law, the Roman Catholic Church and heretical sects, pagan philosophers, languages, cities, humans, animals, the physical world, geography, public buildings, roads, metals, rocks, agriculture, war, ships, clothes, food, and tools. Etymologiae was a widely used textbook throughout the Middle Ages. It was so popular that it was read in place of many of the original classical texts that it summarized; as a result, some of these ceased to be copied and were lost.[citation needed] It was cited by Dante Alighieri (who placed Isidore in his Paradiso), quoted by Geoffrey Chaucer, and mentioned by the poets Boccaccio, Petrarch, and John Gower. Among the thousand-odd surviving manuscript copies is the 13th-century Codex Gigas; the earliest surviving manuscript, the Codex Sangallensis, preserves books XI to XX from the 9th century. Etymologiae was printed in at least ten editions between 1472 and 1530, after which its importance faded during the Renaissance. The first scholarly edition was printed in Madrid in 1599; the first modern critical edition was edited by Wallace Lindsay in 1911. Etymologiae is less well known in modern times, though modern scholars recognize its importance both in preserving classical texts and for insight into the medieval mindset. Context[edit] Isidore of Seville was born around 560 in Cartagena, Spain, under the unstable rule of the Visigoths after the collapse of the Roman Empire in the West. His older brother, Leander, the abbot of a Seville monastery, supervised Isidore's education, probably in the school attached to his monastery. Leander was a powerful priest, a friend of Pope Gregory, and eventually he became bishop of Seville. Leander also made friends with the Visigothic king's sons, Hermenigild and Reccared. In 586, Reccared became king, and in 587 under Leander's religious direction he became a Catholic, controlling the choice of bishops. Reccared died in 601, not long after appointing Isidore as bishop of Seville. Isidore helped to unify the kingdom through Christianity and education, eradicating the Arian heresy which had been widespread, and led National Councils at Toledo and Seville. Isidore had a close friendship with king Sisebut, who came to the throne in 612, and with another Seville churchman, Braulio, who later became bishop of Saragossa. Isidore was widely read, mainly in Latin with a little Greek and Hebrew. He was familiar with the works of both the church fathers and pagan writers such as Martial, Cicero and Pliny the Elder, this last the author of the major encyclopaedia then in existence, the Natural History. The classical encyclopedists had already introduced alphabetic ordering of topics, and a literary rather than observational approach to knowledge: Isidore followed those traditions.[1] Isidore became well known in his lifetime as a scholar. He started to put together a collection of his knowledge, the Etymologies, in about 600, and continued to write until about 625.[2][3] Overview[edit] Manuscript page from the start of the Etymologiae, showing the letters of the Greek alphabet. Codex Karolinus, 8th century. Wolfenbüttel digital library. An early printed edition, by Guntherus Zainer, Augsburg, 1472. British Library Etymologiae presents in abbreviated form much of that part of the learning of antiquity that Christians thought worth preserving. Etymologies, often very far-fetched, form the subject of just one of the encyclopedia's twenty books (Book X), but perceived linguistic similarities permeate the work. An idea of the quality of Isidore's etymological knowledge is given by Peter Jones: "Now we know most of his derivations are total nonsense (eg, he derives baculus, 'walking-stick', from Bacchus, god of drink, because you need one to walk straight after sinking a few)".[4] Isidore's vast encyclopedia of ancient learning includes subjects from theology to furniture, and provided a rich source of classical lore and learning for medieval writers. In his works including the Etymologiae, Isidore quotes from around 475 works from over 200 authors.[5] Bishop Braulio, to whom Isidore dedicated it and sent it for correction, divided it into its twenty books.[6] An analysis by Jacques André of Book XII shows it contains 58 quotations from named authors and 293 borrowed but uncited usages: 79 from Solinus; 61 from Servius; 45 from Pliny the Elder. Isidore takes care to name classical and Christian scholars whose material he uses, especially, in descending order of frequency, Aristotle (15 references), Jerome (10 times), Cato (9 times), Plato (8 times), Pliny, Donatus, Eusebius, Augustine, Suetonius, and Josephus. He mentions as prolific authors the pagan Varro and the Christians Origen and Augustine. But his translator Stephen Barney notes as remarkable that he never actually names the compilers of the encyclopedias that he used "at second or third hand",[7] Aulus Gellius, Nonius Marcellus, Lactantius, Macrobius, and Martianus Capella. Barney further notes as "most striking"[7] that Isidore never mentions three out of his four principal sources (the one he does name being Pliny): Cassiodorus, Servius and Solinus. Conversely, he names Pythagoras eight times, even though Pythagoras wrote no books. The Etymologies are thus "complacently derivative".[7] In book II, dealing with dialectic and rhetoric, Isidore is heavily indebted to translations from the Greek by Boethius, and in book III, he is similarly in debt to Cassiodorus, who provided the gist of Isidore's treatment of arithmetic. Caelius Aurelianus contributes generously to the part of book IV dealing with medicine. Isidore's view of Roman law in book V is viewed through the lens of the Visigothic compendiary called the Breviary of Alaric, which was based on the Code of Theodosius, which Isidore never saw. Through Isidore's condensed paraphrase a third-hand memory of Roman law passed to the Early Middle Ages. Lactantius is the author most extensively quoted in book XI, concerning man. Books XII, XIII and XIV are largely based on Pliny the Elder's Natural History and Solinus, whereas the lost Prata of Suetonius, which can be partly pieced together from what is quoted in Etymologiae, seems to have inspired the general plan of the work, as well as many of its details.[8] Isidore's Latin, replete with nonstandard Vulgar Latin, stands at the cusp of Latin and the local Romance language of Hispania.[a] According to the prefatory letters, the work was composed at the urging of his friend Braulio, Bishop of Saragossa, to whom Isidore, at the end of his life, sent his codex inemendatus ("unedited book"), which seems to have begun circulating before Braulio was able to revise and issue it with a dedication to the late Visigothic King Sisebut.[2] Contents[edit] The Etymologies organizes knowledge, mainly drawn from the classics, into twenty books: Structure of The Etymologies Book Topics Principal sources (Whole work) (Etymological encyclopedia) the Prata of Suetonius, now lost[8] Book I: de grammatica Trivium: grammar Institutes of Cassiodorus[11] Book II: de rhetorica et dialectica Trivium: rhetoric and dialectic Cassiodorus[11] Book III: de quatuor disciplinis mathematicis Quadrivium: arithmetic, geometry, music, astronomy Boethius on mathematics; Cassiodorus[11] Book IV: de medicina medicine Caelius Aurelianus, Soranus of Ephesus, Pliny[11] Book V: de legibus et temporibus law and chronology Institutes of Gaius, Breviary of Alaric[11] Book VI: de libris et officiis ecclesiasticis Ecclesiastical books and offices Augustine, Jerome, Gregory the Great, Divine Institutes of Lactantius, Tertullian[11] Book VII: de deo, angelis, sanctis et fidelium ordinibus God, angels and saints: hierarchies of heaven and earth Augustine, Jerome, Gregory the Great, Lactantius, Tertullian[11] Book VIII: de ecclesia et sectis diversis The Roman Catholic Church and Jews and heretical sects; philosophers (pagans), prophets and sibyls Augustine, Jerome, Gregory the Great, Lactantius, Tertullian (Christian); Varro, Cicero, Pliny the Elder (pagan)[11] Book IX: de linguis, gentibus, regnis, militia, civibus, affinitatibus Languages, peoples, kingdoms, armies, cities and titles Augustine, Ambrose, Jerome, Servius, Pliny, Solinus (who borrowed from Pliny)[11] Book X: de vocabulis Etymologies Verrius Flaccus via Festus; Servius; the Church Fathers.[11] Book XI: de homine et portentis Mankind, portents, and transformations Books XI – XX all include material from Pliny's Natural History, Servius, Solinus Book XII: de animalibus Beasts and birds Pliny, Servius, Solinus, Hexameron of Ambrose[11] Book XIII: de mundo et partibus The physical world, atoms, elements, natural phenomena as Book XI[11] Book XIV: de terra et partibus Geography: Earth, Asia, Europe, Libya, islands, promontories, mountains, caves as Boo contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 45 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Etymologiae responseCode 3 200 