deeaukksoqbibsemrsrergxoueniymdalqvghora length 6 270420 page 10070 German mathematician (1862–1943) "Hilbert" redirects here. For other uses, see Hilbert (disambiguation). David Hilbert Hilbert in 1912 Born (1862-01-23)23 January 1862 Königsberg or Wehlau, Prussia Died 14 February 1943(1943-02-14) (aged 81) Göttingen, Germany Nationality German Education University of Königsberg (PhD) Known for Hilbert's basis theorem Hilbert's axioms Hilbert's problems Hilbert's program Einstein–Hilbert action Hilbert space Epsilon calculus Spouse Käthe Jerosch Children Franz (b. 1893) Awards Lobachevsky Prize (1903) Bolyai Prize (1910) ForMemRS[1] Scientific career Fields Mathematics, Physics and Philosophy Institutions University of Königsberg Göttingen University Thesis On Invariant Properties of Special Binary Forms, Especially of Spherical Functions (1885) Doctoral advisor Ferdinand von Lindemann[2] Doctoral students Wilhelm Ackermann Heinrich Behmann Felix Bernstein Otto Blumenthal Anne Bosworth Werner Boy Ugo Broggi Richard Courant Haskell Curry Max Dehn Ludwig Föppl Rudolf Fueter Paul Funk Kurt Grelling Alfréd Haar Erich Hecke Earle Hedrick Ernst Hellinger Wallie Hurwitz Margarete Kahn Oliver Kellogg Hellmuth Kneser Robert König Emanuel Lasker Klara Löbenstein Charles Max Mason Alexander Myller Erhard Schmidt Kurt Schütte Andreas Speiser Hugo Steinhaus Gabriel Sudan Teiji Takagi Hermann Weyl Ernst Zermelo Other notable students Edward Kasner John von Neumann David Hilbert (/ˈhɪlbərt/;[3] German: [ˈdaːvɪt ˈhɪlbɐt]; 23 January 1862 – 14 February 1943) was a German mathematician and one of the most influential mathematicians of the 19th and early 20th centuries. Hilbert discovered and developed a broad range of fundamental ideas including invariant theory, the calculus of variations, commutative algebra, algebraic number theory, the foundations of geometry, spectral theory of operators and its application to integral equations, mathematical physics, and the foundations of mathematics (particularly proof theory). Hilbert adopted and defended Georg Cantor's set theory and transfinite numbers. In 1900, he presented a collection of problems that set a course for mathematical research of the 20th century.[4][5] Hilbert and his students contributed to establishing rigor and developed important tools used in modern mathematical physics. Hilbert was one of the founders of proof theory and mathematical logic.[6] Life[edit] Early life and education[edit] Hilbert, the first of two children and only son of Otto and Maria Therese (Erdtmann) Hilbert, was born in the Province of Prussia, Kingdom of Prussia, either in Königsberg (according to Hilbert's own statement) or in Wehlau (known since 1946 as Znamensk) near Königsberg where his father worked at the time of his birth.[7] In late 1872, Hilbert entered the Friedrichskolleg Gymnasium (Collegium fridericianum, the same school that Immanuel Kant had attended 140 years before); but, after an unhappy period, he transferred to (late 1879) and graduated from (early 1880) the more science-oriented Wilhelm Gymnasium.[8] Upon graduation, in autumn 1880, Hilbert enrolled at the University of Königsberg, the "Albertina". In early 1882, Hermann Minkowski (two years younger than Hilbert and also a native of Königsberg but had gone to Berlin for three semesters),[9] returned to Königsberg and entered the university. Hilbert developed a lifelong friendship with the shy, gifted Minkowski.[10][11] Career[edit] Hilbert in 1886 Hilbert in 1907 In 1884, Adolf Hurwitz arrived from Göttingen as an Extraordinarius (i.e., an associate professor). An intense and fruitful scientific exchange among the three began, and Minkowski and Hilbert especially would exercise a reciprocal influence over each other at various times in their scientific careers. Hilbert obtained his doctorate in 1885, with a dissertation, written under Ferdinand von Lindemann,[2] titled Über invariante Eigenschaften spezieller binärer Formen, insbesondere der Kugelfunktionen ("On the invariant properties of special binary forms, in particular the spherical harmonic functions"). Hilbert remained at the University of Königsberg as a Privatdozent (senior lecturer) from 1886 to 1895. In 1895, as a result of intervention on his behalf by Felix Klein, he obtained the position of Professor of Mathematics at the University of Göttingen. During the Klein and Hilbert years, Göttingen became the preeminent institution in the mathematical world.[12] He remained there for the rest of his life. The Mathematical Institute in Göttingen. Its new building, constructed with funds from the Rockefeller Foundation, was opened by Hilbert and Courant in 1930. Göttingen school[edit] Among Hilbert's students were Hermann Weyl, chess champion Emanuel Lasker, Ernst Zermelo, and Carl Gustav Hempel. John von Neumann was his assistant. At the University of Göttingen, Hilbert was surrounded by a social circle of some of the most important mathematicians of the 20th century, such as Emmy Noether and Alonzo Church. Among his 69 Ph.D. students in Göttingen were many who later became famous mathematicians, including (with date of thesis): Otto Blumenthal (1898), Felix Bernstein (1901), Hermann Weyl (1908), Richard Courant (1910), Erich Hecke (1910), Hugo Steinhaus (1911), and Wilhelm Ackermann (1925).[13] Between 1902 and 1939 Hilbert was editor of the Mathematische Annalen, the leading mathematical journal of the time. He was elected an International Member of the United States National Academy of Sciences in 1907.[14] Good, he did not have enough imagination to become a mathematician. — Hilbert's response upon hearing that one of his students had dropped out to study poetry.[15] Personal life[edit] Käthe Hilbert with Constantin Carathéodory, before 1932 Hilbert and his wife Käthe Jerosch (1892) Franz Hilbert In 1892, Hilbert married Käthe Jerosch (1864–1945), who was the daughter of a Königsberg merchant, "an outspoken young lady with an independence of mind that matched [Hilbert's]."[16] While at Königsberg they had their one child, Franz Hilbert [de] (1893–1969). Franz suffered throughout his life from an undiagnosed mental illness, which was a source of strain on his relationship with his father. After his son was admitted into a psychiatric clinic, Hilbert said, "From now on, I must consider myself as not having a son." His attitude toward Franz brought Käthe considerable sorrow. [17] Hilbert considered the mathematician Hermann Minkowski to be his "best and truest friend".[18] Hilbert was baptized and raised a Calvinist in the Prussian Evangelical Church.[a] He later left the Church and became an agnostic.[b] He also argued that mathematical truth was independent of the existence of God or other a priori assumptions.[c][d] When Galileo Galilei was criticized for failing to stand up for his convictions on the Heliocentric theory, Hilbert objected: "But [Galileo] was not an idiot. Only an idiot could believe that scientific truth needs martyrdom; that may be necessary in religion, but scientific results prove themselves in due time."[e] Later years[edit] Like Albert Einstein, Hilbert had closest contacts with the Berlin Group whose leading founders had studied under Hilbert in Göttingen (Kurt Grelling, Hans Reichenbach and Walter Dubislav).[19] Around 1925, Hilbert developed pernicious anemia, a then-untreatable vitamin deficiency whose primary symptom is exhaustion; his assistant Eugene Wigner described him as subject to "enormous fatigue" and how he "seemed quite old," and that even after eventually being diagnosed and treated, he "was hardly a scientist after 1925, and certainly not a Hilbert."[20] Hilbert was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 1932.[21] Hilbert lived to see the Nazis purge many of the prominent faculty members at University of Göttingen in 1933.[22] Those forced out included Hermann Weyl (who had taken Hilbert's chair when he retired in 1930), Emmy Noether and Edmund Landau. One who had to leave Germany, Paul Bernays, had collaborated with Hilbert in mathematical logic, and co-authored with him the important book Grundlagen der Mathematik (which eventually appeared in two volumes, in 1934 and 1939). This was a sequel to the Hilbert–Ackermann book Principles of Mathematical Logic from 1928. Hermann Weyl's successor was Helmut Hasse. About a year later, Hilbert attended a banquet and was seated next to the new Minister of Education, Bernhard Rust. Rust asked whether "the Mathematical Institute really suffered so much because of the departure of the Jews." Hilbert replied, "Suffered? It doesn't exist any longer, does it?"[23][24] Death[edit] Hilbert's tomb: Wir müssen wissen Wir werden wissen By the time Hilbert died in 1943, the Nazis had nearly completely restaffed the university, as many of the former faculty had either been Jewish or married to Jews. Hilbert's funeral was attended by fewer than a dozen people, only two of whom were fellow academics, among them Arnold Sommerfeld, a theoretical physicist and also a native of Königsberg.[25] News of his death only became known to the wider world several months after he died.[26] The epitaph on his tombstone in Göttingen consists of the famous lines he spoke at the conclusion of his retirement address to the Society of German Scientists and Physicians on 8 September 1930. The words were given in response to the Latin maxim: "Ignoramus et ignorabimus" or "We do not know and we shall not know":[27] Wir müssen wissen. Wir werden wissen. We must know. We shall know. The day before Hilbert pronounced these phrases at the 1930 annual meeting of the Society of German Scientists and Physicians, Kurt Gödel—in a round table discussion during the Conference on Epistemology held jointly with the Society meetings—tentatively announced the first expression of his incompleteness theorem.[f] Gödel's incompleteness theorems show that even elementary axiomatic systems such as Peano arithmetic are either self-contradicting or contain logical propositions that are impossi contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/David_Hilbert responseCode 3 200 