deuavmqsfqqgqcdmwgwijcbkeiugmeucvslabmii length 6 264020 page 10056 2nd President of Argentina from 1868 to 1874 In this Spanish name, the first or paternal surname is Sarmiento and the second or maternal family name is Albarracín. Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Sarmiento in c. 1874 President of Argentina In office 12 October 1868 – 11 October 1874 Vice President Adolfo Alsina Preceded by Bartolomé Mitre Succeeded by Nicolás Avellaneda Minister of Foreign Affairs and Worship In office 6 September 1879 – 9 October 1879 President Nicolás Avellaneda Preceded by Manuel Montes de Oca Succeeded by Lucas González Minister of the Interior In office 29 August 1879 – 9 October 1879 President Nicolás Avellaneda Preceded by Bernardo de Irigoyen Succeeded by Benjamín Zorrilla Governor of San Juan In office 3 January 1862 – 9 April 1864 Preceded by Francisco Díaz Succeeded by Santiago Lloveras Personal details Born Domingo Faustino Fidel Valentín Sarmiento y Albarracín 15 February 1811 San Juan, United Provinces Died 11 September 1888(1888-09-11) (aged 77) Asunción, Paraguay Nationality Argentine Political party Liberal Spouse Benita Martínez Pastoriza (m. 1847; sep. 1857) Domestic partner(s) Aurelia Vélez Sársfield (1857–1888) Children Ana Faustina[a] Domingo Fidel[b] Signature Military service Allegiance Argentina Branch/service Argentine Army Years of service 1834–1863 Rank Divisional General Philosophy career Domingo Faustino Sarmiento ( Spanish: [doˈmiŋɡo saɾˈmjento]; born Domingo Faustino Fidel Valentín Sarmiento y Albarracín;[citation needed] 15 February 1811 – 11 September 1888) was an Argentine activist, intellectual, writer, statesman and the second President of Argentina. His writing spanned a wide range of genres and topics, from journalism to autobiography, to political philosophy and history. He was a member of a group of intellectuals, known as the Generation of 1837, who had a great influence on 19th-century Argentina. He was particularly concerned with educational issues and was also an important influence on the region's literature. Sarmiento grew up in a poor but politically active family that paved the way for many of his future accomplishments. Between 1843 and 1850, he was frequently in exile, and wrote in both Chile and in Argentina. His greatest literary achievement was Facundo, a critique of Juan Manuel de Rosas, that Sarmiento wrote while working for the newspaper El Progreso during his exile in Chile. The book brought him far more than just literary recognition; he expended his efforts and energy on the war against dictatorships, specifically that of Rosas, and contrasted enlightened Europe—a world where, in his eyes, democracy, social services, and intelligent thought were valued—with the barbarism of the gaucho and especially the caudillo, the ruthless strongmen of nineteenth-century Argentina. While president of Argentina from 1868 to 1874, Sarmiento championed intelligent thought—including education for children and women—and democracy for Latin America. He also took advantage of the opportunity to modernize and develop train systems, a postal system, and a comprehensive education system. He spent many years in ministerial roles on the federal and state levels where he travelled abroad and examined other education systems. Sarmiento died in Asunción, Paraguay, at the age of 77 from a heart attack. He was buried in Buenos Aires. Today, he is respected as a political innovator and writer. Miguel de Unamuno considered him among the greatest writers of Castilian prose.[4] Youth and influences[edit] A current map of Argentina, showing some of the key locations in Sarmiento's life such as San Juan (to the West) and Buenos Aires (in the East) Sarmiento was born in Carrascal, a poor suburb of San Juan, Argentina on 15 February 1811.[5] His father, José Clemente Quiroga Sarmiento y Funes, had served in the military during the wars of independence, returning prisoners of war to San Juan.[6] His mother, Doña Paula Zoila de Albarracín e Irrázabal, was a very pious woman,[7] who lost her father at a young age and was left with very little to support herself.[7] As a result, she took to selling her weaving in order to afford to build a house of her own. On 21 September 1801, José and Paula were married. They had 15 children, 9 of whom died; Domingo was the only son to survive to adulthood.[7] Sarmiento was greatly influenced by his parents, his mother who was always working hard, and his father who told stories of being a patriot and serving his country, something Sarmiento strongly believed in.[6] In Sarmiento's own words: Sarmiento's birthplace, Carrascal, San Juan I was born in a family that lived long years in mediocrity bordering on destitution, and which is to this day poor in every sense of the word. My father is a good man whose life has nothing remarkable except [for his] having served in subordinate positions in the War of Independence... My mother is the true figure of Christianity in its purest sense; with her, trust in Providence was always the solution to all difficulties in life."[8] At the age of four, Sarmiento was taught to read by his father and his uncle, José Eufrasio Quiroga Sarmiento, who later became Bishop of Cuyo.[9] Another uncle who influenced him in his youth was Domingo de Oro, a notable figure in the young Argentine Republic who was influential in bringing Juan Manuel de Rosas to power.[10] Though Sarmiento did not follow de Oro's political and religious leanings, he learned the value of intellectual integrity and honesty.[10] He developed scholarly and oratorical skills, qualities which de Oro was famous for.[10][11] In 1816, at the age of five, Sarmiento began attending the primary school La Escuela de la Patria. He was a good student, and earned the title of First Citizen (Primer Ciudadano) of the school.[12] After completing primary school, his mother wanted him to go to Córdoba to become a priest. He had spent a year reading the Bible and often spent time as a child helping his uncle with church services,[13] but Sarmiento soon became bored with religion and school, and got involved with a group of aggressive children.[14] Sarmiento's father took him to the Loreto Seminary in 1821, but for reasons unknown, Sarmiento did not enter the seminary, returning instead to San Juan with his father.[15] In 1823, the Minister of State, Bernardino Rivadavia, announced that the six top pupils of each state would be selected to receive higher education in Buenos Aires. Sarmiento was at the top of the list in San Juan, but it was then announced that only ten pupils would receive the scholarship. The selection was made by lot, and Sarmiento was not one of the scholars whose name was drawn.[16] Like many other nineteenth century Argentines prominent in public life, he was a freemason.[c] Political background and exiles[edit] Portrait of Sarmiento at the time of his exile in Chile, by Franklin Rawson. Sarmiento portrayed by Ignacio Baz. Portrait of Sarmiento painted by his granddaughter Eugenia. In 1826, an assembly elected Bernardino Rivadavia as president of the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata. This action roused the ire of the provinces, and civil war was the result. Support for a strong, centralized Argentine government was based in Buenos Aires, and gave rise to two opposing groups. The wealthy and educated of the Unitarian Party, such as Sarmiento, favored centralized government. In opposition to them were the Federalists, who were mainly based in rural areas and tended to reject European mores. Numbering figures such as Manuel Dorrego and Juan Facundo Quiroga among their ranks, they were in favor of a loose federation with more autonomy for the individual provinces.[17] Opinion of the Rivadavia government was divided between the two ideologies. For Unitarians like Sarmiento, Rivadavia's presidency was a positive experience. He set up a European-staffed university and supported a public education program for rural male children. He also supported theater and opera groups, publishing houses and a museum. These contributions were considered as civilizing influences by the Unitarians, but they upset the Federalist constituency. Common laborers had their salaries subjected to a government cap, and the gauchos were arrested by Rivadavia for vagrancy and forced to work on public projects, usually without pay.[18] In 1827, the Unitarians were challenged by Federalist forces. After the resignation of Rivadavia, Manuel Dorrego was installed as governor of Buenos Aires province. He quickly made peace with Brazil but, on returning to Argentina, was overthrown and executed by the Unitarian general Juan Lavalle, who took Dorrego's place.[19] However, Lavalle did not spend long as governor either: he was soon overthrown by militias composed largely of gauchos led by Rosas and Estanislao López. By the end of 1829 the old legislature that Lavalle had disbanded was back in place and had appointed Rosas as governor of Buenos Aires.[19] The first time Sarmiento was forced to leave home was with his uncle, José de Oro, in 1827, because of his military activities.[20] José de Oro was a priest who had fought in the Battle of Chacabuco under General San Martín.[21] Together, Sarmiento and de Oro went to San Francisco del Monte, in the neighbour province of San Luis. He spent much of his time with his uncle learning and began to teach at the only school in town. Later that year, his mother wrote to him asking him to come home. Sarmiento refused, only to receive a response from his father that he was coming to collect him.[22] His father had persuaded the governor of San Juan to send Sarmiento to Buenos Aires to study at the College of Moral Sciences (Colegio de Ciencias Morales).[22] Soon after Sarmiento's return, the province of San Juan broke out into civil war and Facundo Quiroga invaded Sarmiento's town.[23] As historian William Katra describes this "traumatic experience": At sixteen years of age, he stood in front of the shop he tended and viewed the entrance into contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Domingo_Faustino_Sarmiento responseCode 3 200 