dglqbeqkjebqxgfafezkbomikgxcvkjkholgrqta page 10002 Help page about logging into Wikimedia For information on logs of actions performed on Wikipedia, see Help:Log. Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts H:LOGIN H:LI Create a new account Log into an existing account This video tutorial describes the steps in creating a user account on the English Wikipedia It is not necessary to log in to Wikipedia before viewing or editing pages. It does provide additional features, and is generally recommended. If you do not wish to have your IP address known, then you should log in or create an account. It is quick and simple to create a personal user account. Logging in Creating a user account means that you supply a username (your real name or a nickname) and a password. The system will reject a username that is already in use. A user account is created only once. You are then "logged in". The next time you log in, you supply your username again and demonstrate with the password that you are the same person. (Do not share your password with other people; this can allow them to misuse your account, which could lead to it being blocked.) Edits that you make are recorded under your username. If you are not logged in your edits are labelled in page history with your IP address. User accounts created since May 2008 will be "unified" (that is, accessible from all Wikimedia projects). An older, non-unified account can be unified at Special:MergeAccount; unified users can use that page to check the status of their unified account. Preferences are currently set independently on each wiki. See m:Single login. Why log in? Main page: Wikipedia:Why create an account? You don't have to log in to read Wikipedia. You don't even have to log in to edit most of Wikipedia (there are some exceptions). However, it's still a good idea to log in, for these reasons: Other users will be able to recognise you by your username when you make changes to pages. As a "name" an IP address is somewhat clumsy. Also, if you use computers at different locations (home, office, internet cafe, etc.) you have a different IP-address in each case; even in the same location, depending on the Internet connection, the IP-address may be different each time. Therefore, a username is better to maintain an identity. You will have your own user page where you can write a bit about yourself, and a user talk page which you can use to communicate with other users. You will also be able to make user subpages, as an add-on to your user page. You will be able to mark an edit as minor, which avoids inconvenience for other users. You will be able to keep track of changes to pages you are interested in using a watchlist. If you choose to give an email address, other users will be able to contact you by email. This feature is anonymous — the user who emails you will not know your email address. You don't have to give your email address if you don't want to. Check the privacy policy of the individual site you're visiting, if any (for example, Wikipedia's privacy policy) You will be able to rename pages. You will be able to set your own preferences, to change things such as: The number of pages displayed in Recent changes The fonts, colours and layout of the site, by using different skins. Creating an account To create an account, click on the Create account link at the top right of the page. You will need to provide a username and password, as well as answer a visual "captcha" test. Users with text, speech, or legacy browsers will be unable to create an account if they cannot view this captcha image. If you are unable to view captchas, you can request for an account to be created for you at Wikipedia:Request an account. You may also be unable to create an account if it contains certain symbols (particularly the '@' symbol, as well as certain non-Latin characters) or words, or if it is too similar to that of an existing user. In that case, you will also have to request an account. If your IP address has account creation blocked, you can either request to be unblocked or request an account. How to log in "WP:COOKIES" redirects here. For the essay on notability, see Wikipedia:Run-of-the-mill. For WikiLove templates, see Wikipedia:WikiLove. Shortcut WP:COOKIES First, make sure that your browser accepts cookies. Some browsers can accept or reject cookies from individual sites; users of these should configure the browser to accept cookies from each wiki you plan to edit, such as wikipedia.org. Click on the Log in link at the top-right corner of the page. You will be asked to enter your username and your password in the following screen. If you do not have an account, you will need to create one first. Once finished, click on the Log in button to finish logging in. If you click on Keep me logged in (for up to one year), you will not have to give your password again when you access Wikipedia from the same computer. This feature will only work if your password was not automatically generated by the software. Logging in and setting preferences were previously done separately on each wiki. Since May 2008 it has been possible to use the same username, password and email address across all Wikimedia wikis, without needing to register an account on each wiki. For more details, see m:Help:Unified login. Login issues and problems If you find yourself unable to log in, you may have one of the problems addressed in the following paragraphs. If none of them seem to apply, ask for help at the help desk. The login link is obscured If you cannot click on the login link, for instance because it is obscured by other text, use this direct link to the login page. It may be helpful to add the page to your browser's bookmarks/favourites. (This problem may occur on certain browsers when using a large minimum font size.) My username and password are refused Both usernames and passwords are case-sensitive on Wikipedia. Did you remember to type in the right capitalization? For example, if you registered under MyUserName, you will not be able to log in as Myusername (notice the subtle difference in spelling). The same goes for your password. The only exception is the first character of the username, which is capital by default. I get logged out just after logging in There are a few possible causes of this problem: If you appear to have logged in, but as soon as you try to look at a page after 'Log in successful', you appear logged out again, it is very likely to be a cookie problem. See this brief tutorial on how to enable cookies for your browser. Make sure your computer's date and time are set correctly; if they are not, cookies may expire before they are supposed to. Note that some firewall and ad-blocking software may interfere with the cookie that Wikipedia uses to keep a person logged in. Some ISPs use transparent proxies which cause problems logging in. This happens most often with some satellite ISPs (particularly HughesNet/DirecWay/DirecPC). Occasionally, a user may find themself "automatically" logged out between beginning an edit and saving it, or when switching between multiple wiki pages open in multiple windows or tabs. This can be a result of your browser's cookie, cache, or firewall settings, but sometimes, especially during heavy server load, the system can "glitch" and your login information will be lost, resulting in a logout. Other causes If you are absolutely sure that the login information you have entered is correct, then someone else may have compromised your account. In this case, your account may not be recoverable unless you can prove that the account is yours. In rare cases, your account may have been renamed or usurped, especially if it has few or no edits. You can see if your account has been renamed by viewing the user rename log and search for your username in the "Title" field. I get a message that my IP address has been autoblocked Follow the instructions listed on screen on how to request an unblock or send an email to the unblock-en-i mailing list. What if I forget my username? If you have forgotten your username, these steps may help you recover it: Depending on your browser settings, you may find that the log in page redisplays the last username that was used on that computer. If you have received any emails from Wikipedia, these will include the username. If you can remember the names of any of Wikipedia pages that you edited while logged in, the username will be listed as part of the page history of those pages. If you can remember the first part of the name, this search page may help you remember the rest of it. If you previously entered an email address when signing up for the account or in your Preferences, and you still have access to that email account, and you did not tick the preference checkbox "Send password reset emails only when both email address and username are provided", then you can go to the login screen and click 'Reset your password'. Enter that email address on the next screen (Special:PasswordReset), and the system will send an email containing, among other things, a reminder of your user name. If none of these steps are successful you will have to start again with a new account. Wikipedia administrators will not be able to help you work out your username from your email address or your IP address. What if I forget my password? Main page: Help:Reset password If you have forgotten your password, these steps may help you recover it: If you have asked your web browser or a password manager to remember the password, you may be able to recover it from there. If you previously entered an email address when signing up for the account or in your Preferences, and you still have access to that email account, then you can enter your username on the login screen and click 'Forgot contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Logging_in responseCode 3 200 