dmnqyaacdkteraleporqcmtagsradooensnegolc length 6 249981 page 10126 Schooling in-between primary and secondary schools "Junior High School" redirects here. For the senior half of secondary school, see Secondary school. This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (October 2022) (template removal help) A middle school (also known as intermediate school, junior high school, junior secondary school, or lower secondary school) is an educational stage between primary school and secondary school. A middle school classroom in Myanmar Afghanistan[edit] In Afghanistan, middle school includes grades 6, 7, and 8, consisting of students from ages 11 to 14. Algeria[edit] In Algeria, a middle school includes 4 grades: 6, 7, 8, and 9, consisting of students from ages 11–14. Argentina[edit] See also: Education in Argentina The ciclo básico of secondary education (ages 11–14) is roughly equivalent to middle school. Australia[edit] No regions of Australia have segregated middle schools,[citation needed] as students go directly from primary school (for years K/preparatory–6) to secondary school (years 7–12, usually referred to as high school).[1] As an alternative to the middle school model, some secondary schools classify their grades as "middle school" (years 5,6,7,8 where primary and secondary campuses share facilities or 7,8,9 in a secondary campus) or "junior high school" (years 7, 8, 9, and 10) and "senior high school" (years 11 and 12). Some have three levels, "junior" (years 7 and 8), "intermediate" (years 9 and 10), and "senior" (years 11 and 12). Some schools run a specialised year 9 program segregated from the other secondary year levels. In 1996 and 1997, a national conference met to develop what became known as the National Middle Schooling Project, which aimed to develop a common Australian view of early adolescent needs guiding principles for educators appropriate strategies to foster positive adolescent learning. The first middle school established in Australia was The Armidale School,[2] in Armidale (approximately 370 km (230 mi) north of Sydney, 360 km (220 mi) SSW of Brisbane and approximately 140 km (87 mi) due west of Coffs Harbour on the coast). Other schools have since followed this trend. The Northern Territory has introduced a three tier system featuring Middle Schools for years 7–9 (approximate age 13–15) and high school year 10–12 (approximate age 16–18).[3] Many schools across Queensland have introduced a Middle School tier within their schools. The middle schools cover years 5 to 8.[citation needed] Bangladesh[edit] In Bangladesh, middle school is not separated as in other countries. Generally, schools are from class 1 to class 10. It means lower primary (1–5), upper primary (6–10). Class 6–8 is thought of as middle school. Grades 1,2,3,4 and 5 are said to be primary school while all the classes from 6 to 10 are considered high school (as middle school and high school are not considered separate) while 11–12 (inclusive) is called college. 1–5 is known as primary (Part of Primary School) 6–8 is known as lower secondary (Part of High School) 9–10 is known as secondary (part of High School) 11–12 is known as higher secondary also known as college. Bolivia[edit] Middle schools in Bolivia have been abolished since 1994.[4] Students aged 11–15 attend the last years of elementary education or the first years of secondary education. Brazil[edit] In Brazil, middle school is a mandatory stage that precedes High School (Ensino Médio) called "Ensino Fundamental II" consisting of grades 6 to 9, ages 11 to 14. Canada[edit] Main article: Education in Canada In Canada, the terms "middle school" and "junior high school" are both used, depending on which grades the school caters to.[5] Junior high schools tend to include only grades 7, 8, and sometimes 9 (some older schools with the name 'carved in concrete' still use "Junior High" as part of their name, although grade nine is now missing), whereas middle schools are usually grades 6–8 or only grades 7–8 or 6–7 (i.e. around ages 11–14), varying from area to area and also according to population vs. building capacity. Another common model is grades 5–8. Alberta, Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, and Prince Edward Island junior high schools typically include grades 7–9, with the first year of high school traditionally being grade 10. In some places students go from elementary school to secondary school, meaning the elementary school covers to the end of grade 8. In Ontario, the terms "middle school" and "senior public school" (sometimes just grades 7 and 8) are used, with the latter being used particularly in the Old Toronto and Scarborough sections of Toronto plus in Mississauga, Brampton, and Kitchener-Waterloo. In many smaller Ontario cities and in some parts of larger cities, most elementary schools serve junior kindergarten to grade 8 meaning there are no separate middle schools buildings, while in some cities (such as Hamilton) specific schools do serve the intermediate grades (i.e. grades 6–8 or grades 7–8) but are still called "elementary" or "public" schools with no recognition of the grades they serve in their name. In the province of Quebec, there is no middle school section; post-elementary grade 6, the secondary level has five grades, called Secondary I to Secondary V (grades 7 to 11). Chile[edit] See also: Education in Chile There is no proper "middle school" in Chile, but rather an analogous "Educación Básica" that encompasses both elementary and middle schools. Educación Básica includes grades 1 through 8, consisting of students from ages 6 to 14. China[edit] In the People's Republic of China, primary school covers grades 1–6 and secondary school covers grades 7–12. Secondary schools are further divided into two stages, junior high school (初级中学 chūjízhōngxué or 初中 chūzhōng, grades 7–9) and senior high school (高级中学 gāojízhōngxué or 高中 gāozhōng), grades 10–12). The Chinese junior high school is roughly equivalent to an American middle school, and provides the last 3 years of the nine-year compulsory education required for all Chinese citizens. The senior high school is optional but considered as critical preparation for tertiary education. The admissions for most students to enrol in senior secondary schools from the junior stage are on the basis of the scores that they get in "Senior High School Entrance Exam",[note 1] which are held by local governments. Other students may bypass the exam, based on their distinctive talents, like athletics, leadership merits or excellent coursework performance in junior stage. Colombia[edit] See also: Education in Colombia Secondary education is divided into basic secondary (grades 6 to 9) and mid-secondary (grades 10 and 11). The students in basic secondary, roughly equivalent to middle school, are 11 or 12 to 15 or 16 years old. Cuba[edit] See also: Education in Cuba Secundaria básica (basic secondary, seventh through ninth grades) is the approximate equivalent of middle school in Cuba. Cyprus[edit] In Cyprus, the equivalent period to middle school is called γυμνάσιο (gymnasio / gymnasium), which caters to children between the ages 12 and 15, i.e. 7th, 8th, and 9th grade. This is followed by λύκειο (lykeio / lyceum), for ages 16 to 18. Czech Republic[edit] In the Czech Republic after completing the nine-year elementary school (compulsory school attendance) a student may apply for high school or grammar school.[6] Students have the opportunity to enroll in high school from Grade 6 or (less commonly[citation needed]) Grade 8 of elementary school, spending eight or six years respectively at high school that otherwise takes four years. Thus they can spend five years in elementary school, followed by eight in high school. The first four years of the eight-year study program at high school are comparable with junior high school.[citation needed] Gymnasium focuses on a more advanced academic approach to education.[citation needed] All other types of high schools except gymnasiums and conservatories (e.g. lyceums) accept only students that finished Grade 9.[6] Ecuador[edit] See also: Education in Ecuador The 4th and last level of educación general básica (ages 12–14) is roughly equivalent to middle school. Egypt[edit] In Egypt, middle school precedes high school. It is called the preparatory stage and consists of three phases: first preparatory in which students study more subjects than primary with different branches. For instance, algebra and geometry are taught instead of "mathematics." In the second preparatory phase, students study science, geography, the history of Egypt starting with pharaonic history, including Coptic history, Islamic history, and concluding with modern history. The students are taught two languages, Arabic and English. Middle school (preparatory stage) lasts for three years. France[edit] In France, the equivalent period to middle school is collège, which lasts four years from the Sixième ("sixth," the equivalent of the Canadian and American Grade 6) to the Troisième ("third," the equivalent of the Canadian and American Grade 9), accommodating pupils aged between 11 and 14. Upon completion of the latter, students are awarded a brevet des collèges if they obtain a certain number of points on a series of tests in various subjects (French, history/geography, mathematics, physics/chemistry), but also on a series of skills completed during the last year and on oral examinations (e.g. about cross-subjects themes they work on the latest years, the fourth year of collège). They can then enter high school (called lycée), which lasts three years from the Seconde to the Terminale until the baccalauréat, and during which they can choose a general or a professional field of study.[7] Georgia[edit] See also: Education in Georgia (country) In Georgia, the equivalent period to middle school covers ages 12 to 15, from the 7th grade to the 9th and contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Middle_school responseCode 3 200 