dmqegkuorcuswqxewmmogcusnqgcjawaekqqlmmq length 6 232653 page 10000 For Wikipedia's main introductory tutorials, see Help:Introduction and Contributing to Wikipedia. Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:PRIMER WP:Rough guide WP:NewbieGuide WP:NewbGuide This page in a nutshell: This article provides a quick and simple guide to people who are new to Wikipedia. Wikipedia is really not the confusing place to edit that one might first think. All it takes is an understanding of what we're all about. Contributing to Wikipedia (Tutorial) Policies and guidelines Editing policy Content policies Dispute resolution Simple rule set Simple style manual Introductions About Wikipedia Administration How to contribute Tutorial How-to pages Creating an account How to edit Starting an article Article wizard Talk pages Referencing Renaming Deletion Media Lists Tables Templates Copying text Style tips Wikitext Writing advice Article development Basic copyediting Layouts Avoiding mistakes Writing better Perfect article Advanced editing Community Portal Dashboard Essays Maintenance Task Center WikiProjects Editor's index Directories and indexes FAQs Help index Tools Interactive help Teahouse Help desk v t e Welcome to Wikipedia! We're all volunteers here. There are no bosses or paid supervisors. But we do have policies and guidelines, created and developed by fellow editors, to help contributors work together to produce accurate, verifiable articles, free of bias and accidental copyright infringements. While the guidance offered here is covered in far more detail elsewhere within Wikipedia, this essay should be of help in your early days as a member of our great project. Don't be afraid to edit as you are encouraged to be bold! If you do get stuck, there are volunteers available to answer your questions, see asking for help for more information. Introduction[edit] Further information: WP:About and WP:Administration Shortcuts WP:APFN WP:APN WP:PFN Okay, so you're new to Wikipedia, and want to learn how to use it or even perhaps write an article. This guide is intended to focus on the most important rules and hopefully prevent newcomers from getting into too much trouble during their first few days or weeks of editing. As new editors gain familiarity with Wikipedia, interest in the more in-depth coverage of these "rules" elsewhere will replace their need for this very basic guide. This newcomer's primer presents an easy-to-understand introduction to the "rules" of Wikipedia, written for the benefit of beginning Wikipedians who would like a summary of our extensive guidelines on a single page. It is hoped that this guide will help newcomers better understand what is required to create an article that will be accepted by the Wikipedia community, and that it will help a newcomer avoid the information overload that may result from trying to digest all our individual guideline and policy pages at once. Even for experienced editors, Wikipedia's "rules" can sometimes be confusing. While you'll find this information covered in far greater depth at the various specific guideline and policy pages, for you, the newcomer, here is an attempt to explain some of these concepts, in a most basic way in the hopes of helping you to get started on writing your first article. Newcomers are always encouraged to ask for input or assistance from others, to ensure that something they have written is suitable for Wikipedia's main area, where articles reside. A person can ask for help in several ways, including simply asking other editors, visiting either the Wikipedia:help desk or the Teahouse (a friendly place especially for new editors), or by placing the code {{helpme}} on their talk page. The basics[edit] Shortcuts WP:FIVE WP:5P WP:FIVEPILLARS All rules come from Wikipedia's Five Pillars, which summarize the basic principles by which Wikipedia tries to function. In a nutshell: 1. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia It brings together information one might expect to find in other general and/or specialized encyclopedias, almanacs, and gazetteers. That information needs to be verifiable with content sourced back to outside reliable sources. A contributor's personal experiences, views, interpretations, or opinions do not belong here. Wikipedia is not a soapbox, not an advertising platform, not a vanity press, not a blog, not an experiment in anarchy or democracy, not an indiscriminate collection of miscellaneous information, nor a web directory. It is not a dictionary, not a newspaper, nor a collection of source documents. Wikipedia has sister projects where that type of material might be welcome instead. 2. Wikipedia requires a neutral point of view Wikipedia articles do not push a single point of view. Articles must be balanced, representing multiple perspectives and sharing them accurately, in proper context, in proportion to the prominence of each viewpoint in reliable sources, and not pushing any particular point of view as "the truth" or "the best". ALL information should be referenced to verifiable, authoritative sources... especially for controversial topics. If there are arguments or disagreements between contributors about neutrality, the details should be hammered out in the article's talk page, and if not worked out there, resolved through the various stages of Wikipedia dispute resolution. There is a process. Accept and respect it. 3. Wikipedia is free content that anyone can edit and distribute. Contributors MUST respect copyright laws. What is written outside of Wikipedia is usually copyrighted. See Wikipedia:Copy-paste for more information. Any use within Wikipedia must follow applicable copyright law. No Wikipedia editor ever owns an article, no matter how much they might have contributed to it. What you might write for Wikipedia becomes freely licensed to the public. Whatever you might write can and will be mercilessly edited and re-edited and tweaked and poked and changed by others. 4. Wikipedians should always be polite to each other Treat fellow contributors with respect, even when there are disagreements. With so many different persons and personalities editing these pages, it is best to always be courteous and avoid personal attacks. Find common ground in discussions. Avoid battling over edits or content. And remember that there are currently 6,744,845 articles on the English Wikipedia to work on and discuss. Always try to assume the best in other editors, not the worst. Don't presume someone is messing with you just to mess with you. Don't take it personally nor make it personal. Never start messing things up just to make a point. And though it is sometimes difficult (we are human after all), do your best to assume good faith on the part of others. Be open and welcoming to new editors. 5. Wikipedia does not have firm rules besides the five general principles presented here. Policies and guidelines are subject to change. A contributor can usually be bold in updating an article, and they do not have to worry too much about making mistakes. However, it's always best to be careful and only act from understanding and knowledge, not personal opinion. An editor's efforts do not have to be perfect, because prior versions are saved by default and any damage done can be fixed. However (and you'll learn this as you go), there is a sometimes unrealistic expectation from veteran editors that every newcomer already understands all the confusing rules before they begin editing. If you make an error, the person who catches it might not realize or care that you are new. The person may even presume you did whatever it was you did on purpose just to mess with them or with Wikipedia. Well, that's their own lack of good faith... don't let it be yours. Remember that Wikipedia is full of many different sorts of personalities and temperaments... so if someone is a bit brusque, don't take it personally. If you make a mistake, apologize and ask for clarification. Wikipedia's strength is in it being a community; so communicate! Policies[edit] Shortcut WP:LOP An editor in the process of reading every single one of Wikipedia's Policies, Guidelines and Essays. He was only twelve years old when he started! Policies have wide acceptance among editors and were created by Wikipedia editors as the standards that all users should follow. Policies are considered the "rules" which govern how Wikipedia is run. They are related to the Five Pillars of Wikipedia. If ever in doubt, remember that a user is always welcome and encouraged to ask for clarifications or ask for specific help on the talk pages of the various policies. Behavior policies (or conduct) are the standards set for behavior on Wikipedia to make it a pleasant experience for everyone. Most succinctly: be polite. Violating behavioral guidelines can result in being blocked from editing. Content policies define which topics are welcome on Wikipedia, and provide the standards for quality and naming. Deletion policies deal with page deletion: the how-to, whys and why-nots. Enforcement policies outline what actions editors can take to enforce other policies. Legal and copyright policies are the law-based rules about what material may be used here, and the remedies for misuse. When in doubt, don't hesitate to ask for clarification. Guidelines[edit] Shortcuts WP:LGL WP:Guidelines Guidelines are considered advisory, but are still given a great deal of weight when editing Wikipedia. They advise on how to prevent or avoid causing problems, and on how to apply and execute policy under various circumstances. Occasionally a guideline appears to conflict with a policy. In those cases, the policy usually takes precedence. A new editor is encouraged to ask for clarifications or ask for specific help on the talk pages of the various guidelines. It is never inc contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 66 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:A_primer_for_newcomers responseCode 3 200 