dqpagquiooeelsfosglgaiciecdcpqfejmschoxg page 10002 Wikipedia policy page Overview Dictionary Bot policy Bot Approvals Group Guide Noticeboard Newsletter Bot Requests Requests for Approval Adminbots {{BAG Tools}} Creating a Bot List of bots Activity monitor Status report History Types This page documents a procedural policy of Wikipedia. It documents various processes by which the English Wikipedia operates. Shortcuts WP:BOTP WP:BOTPOL This page in a nutshell: Automated editing processes, known as "bots", must be harmless and useful, have approval, use separate user accounts, and be operated responsibly. This wiki also allows global bots to be run, subject to local requirements. The bot policy covers the operation of all bots and automated scripts used to provide automation of Wikipedia edits, whether completely automated, higher speed, or simply assisting human editors in their own work. It also covers the work of the Bot Approvals Group (BAG), which supervises and approves all bot-related activity from a technical and quality-control perspective on behalf of the English Wikipedia community. Other languages may have their own bot policies which differ from this one. Definitions Main page: Wikipedia:Bots/Dictionary Shortcut WP:BOTDEF Bots (short for "robots") generally make automated changes or actions. After launching the bot, an assumption can be made that there is no further need for human decision-making. Assisted or semi-automated editing covers specifically lower-speed tools and scripts that can assist users to make decisions but leave the actual decision up to the user (see Assisted editing guidelines below). Scripts are personalized scripts (typically, but not always, written in JavaScript) that may automate processes, or may merely enhance the existing MediaWiki interface. The Bot Approvals Group (BAG) is a group of users with appropriate technical skills and wiki-experience, whose members are approved by the community to oversee and make decisions on bot activity and on-wiki operation for the community. The BAG also determine the classification as bot or assisted editing, in ambiguous cases. Formal work by MediaWiki developers is outside the scope of this policy. Bot usage Shortcut WP:BOTUSE Because bots: are potentially capable of editing far faster than humans can; and have a lower level of scrutiny on each edit than a human editor; and may cause severe disruption if they malfunction or are misused; the community expects bots to meet high standards before they are approved for use on designated tasks. The operation of unapproved bots, or use of approved bots in ways outside their approved conditions of operation, is prohibited and may in some cases lead to blocking of the user account and possible sanctions for the operator. Note that high-speed semi-automated editing may effectively be considered bots in some cases (see WP:MEATBOT), even if performed by a human editor. If in doubt, check. Bot accounts Shortcut WP:BOTACC See also: Wikipedia:Username policy Contributors should create a separate account in order to operate a bot. The account's name should identify the bot function (e.g. <Task>Bot), or the operator's main account (e.g. <Username>Bot). In all cases, it should be immediately clear that the edits are made by an automated account, which is usually achieved by including Bot at the end of the account name. Bots must edit only while logged into their account. Tools not considered to be bots do not require a separate account, but some users do choose to make separate accounts for non-bot but high-speed editing. The contributions of a bot account remain the responsibility of its operator, whose account must be prominently identifiable on its user page. In particular, the bot operator is responsible for the repair of any damage caused by a bot which operates incorrectly. All policies apply to a bot account in the same way as to any other user account. Bot accounts are considered alternative accounts of their operator. To ensure compliance with WP:BOTCOMM, IP editors wishing to operate a bot must first register an account before operating a bot. Bot accounts should not be used for contributions that do not fall within the scope of the bot's designated tasks. In particular, bot operators should not use a bot account to respond to messages related to the bot. Bot operators may wish to redirect a bot account's discussion page to their own. The "bot" flag Shortcut WP:BOTFLAG Bot accounts will be marked by a bureaucrat as being in the "bot" user group upon BAG request. This flag reduces some of the technical limits imposed by the MediaWiki software. Edits by such accounts are hidden by default within recent changes. Bot accounts may also be added to the "copyviobot" user group upon BAG request; this flag allows use of the API to add metadata to edits for use in the new pages feed. Activity requirements Bot accounts that have had no logged actions or edits for two years, where the listed operator has also had no logged actions or edits for two years, will be deauthorized. Following a one-week notification period on the bots noticeboard, and the operator's talk page, prior task approvals will be considered expired and bot flags will be removed. Should the operator return and wish to reactivate the bot, a new request for approval (BRFA) must be completed. Bots directed to edit by other users Shortcut WP:BOTMULTIOP Some bots allow other editors to direct the bot to make an edit or other action. It is recommended and preferable to use OAuth to make the edit on the user's account directly. However, it can be permissible to instead make these edits via a bot account (particularly if necessary due to the actions being privileged), provided the following conditions are met: Disclosure: The identity of the Wikipedia user directing the edit/action must be publicly disclosed, typically by linking the username in the edit summary. Verification: The identity of the Wikipedia user must be reliably verified to the bot in a manner not easily faked, bypassed or avoided. Suitable methods include a non-trivial password, IP restrictions, wiki login or IRC hostname. If the bot is used to make sensitive actions, stronger methods of verification may be required. Competence: All users directing a bot must have the required skill and knowledge to ensure their actions are within community consensus. Bot requirements Shortcut WP:BOTREQUIRE In order for a bot to be approved, its operator should demonstrate that it: is harmless is useful does not consume resources unnecessarily performs only tasks for which there is consensus carefully adheres to relevant policies and guidelines uses informative messages, appropriately worded, in all edit summaries or messages left for users The bot account's user page should identify the bot as such using the {{bot}} tag. The following information should be provided on, or linked from, both the bot account's userpage and the approval request: Details of the bot's task (or tasks) Whether the bot is manually assisted or runs automatically When it operates (continuously, intermittently, or at specified intervals), and at what rate Performance Shortcut WP:BOTPERF While performance is not generally an issue, bot operators should recognize that a bot making many requests or editing at a high speed has a much greater effect than the average contributor. Operators should be careful not to make unnecessary Web requests, and be conservative in their editing speed. Sysadmins will inform the community if performance issues of any significance do arise, and in such situations, their directives must be followed. Bots in trial periods, and approved bots performing all but the most urgent tasks, should be run at a rate that permits review of their edits when necessary. Unflagged bots should edit more slowly than flagged bots, as their edits are visible in user watchlists. The urgency of a task should always be considered; tasks that do not need to be completed quickly (for example, renaming categories) can and should be accomplished at a slower rate than those that do (for example, reverting vandalism). Bots' editing speed should be regulated in some way; subject to approval, bots doing non-urgent tasks may edit approximately once every ten seconds, while bots doing more urgent tasks may edit approximately once every five seconds. Bots editing at a high speed should operate more slowly during peak hours (12:00–04:00 UTC), and days (middle of the week, especially Wednesdays and Thursdays) than during the quietest times (weekends). Bots' editing speed may also be adjusted based on replica database server lag; this allows bots to edit more quickly during quiet periods while slowing down considerably when server load is high. This can be achieved by appending an extra parameter to the query string of each requested URL; see mw:Manual:Maxlag parameter for more details. Bots that download substantial portions of Wikipedia's content by requesting many individual pages are not permitted. When such content is required, download database dumps instead. Bots that require access to run queries on Wikipedia databases may be run on Wikimedia Toolforge; such processes are outside the scope of this policy. Good communication Shortcut WP:BOTCOMM See also: General notice to bot owners about edit summaries Users who read messages or edit summaries from bots will generally expect a high standard of cordiality and information, backed up by prompt and civil help from the bot's operator if queries arise. Bot operators should take care in the design of communications, and ensure that they will be able to meet any enquiries resulting from the bot's operation cordially, promptly, and appropriately. Issues and enquiries are typically expected to be handled on the English Wikipedia. Pages reachable via unified login, like a talk page at Commons or at Italian Wikipedia could also be acceptable, so long at it is clear on both the bot page and the bot's talk page that this is where comments  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:ASSISTED responseCode 3 200 