dqvakiyodqvozkdorinqxiycsgzgbklaegtewibo page 5043 Wikipedia aims to be a neutral compilation of verifiable, established facts. Shortcuts WP:BRIEF WP:INBRIEF This means: Content policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Article titles Biographies of living persons Image use policy What Wikipedia is not v t e Neutral Wikipedia does not judge or advocate specific views or opinions, or make determinations on "correctness". Where differing views exist, they are presented objectively, without bias or undue weight. Balance derives from reliable sources, not personal judgment. Compilation Wikipedia is an encyclopedia, consisting of articles written in a particular style. There is a process which advances articles to our goal. Verifiable Information must be realistically verifiable by others. This is generally done by citing from reliable sources. Established Original ideas, interpretations, or research cannot be verified, and thus are inappropriate for Wikipedia. Wikipedia is not a primary source; it strives to be a tertiary source. Facts Wikipedia documents facts; it does not offer editorial opinions. Articles state the important views which exist, and who holds them ("facts about opinions"). See also[edit] Wikipedia:Administration – Discuses both the human administrative structure of Wikipedia, and its non-human components. Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons – About how editors must take particular care when adding information about living persons to any Wikipedia page. Wikipedia:Purpose – Describes Wikipedia's motive for being. Wikipedia:Here to build an encyclopedia – About how Wikipedians are here to build an encyclopedia, i.e., a neutral public reference work on certain topics. Wikipedia:Five pillars – The fundamental principles of Wikipedia summarized in five "pillars". Wikipedia:The rules are principles – About how policies and guidelines exist only as rough approximations of their underlying principles. Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not – The page outlines certain things that Wikipedia is not. v t e Unofficial summaries of Wikipedia rules Wikipedia in brief Core content policies All policies, in brief Conflict of interest tips (see also Jimbo on paid advocacy) Medical editors' guide New editors' guide No personal attacks (attack the edit, not the user) Notability, reliable sources, and independent sources What Wikipedia is not Simplified Manual of Style v t e Wikipedia principles Five pillars Statement of our principles Jimbo's statement Historic principles Simplified ruleset Synopsis of our conventions Wikimedia principles Common to all projects (in Meta-Wiki) Principles Other essays on Wikipedia's principles v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Wikipedia_in_brief responseCode 3 200 