dsqagsoavcvivqwermikeiagugycjkegfcymfagc length 6 221621 page 10024 Today's featured article archive 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 January February March April May June July August September October November December v t e Featured content: Featured articles ← Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Featured article candidates (FAC) Featured article criteria Featured article log Featured article statistics Featured article review (FAR) Former featured articles Unreviewed featured articles/2020 Today's featured article (TFA): This month's queue About Today's featured article Recent TFAs and statistics Current TFA requests Potential TFA requests TFA oddities Most viewed TFAs Featured articles yet to appear as TFA Script to track TFA recent changes Featured article tools: Mentoring for FAC Nominators of featured articles promoted Recent changes to featured articles Random featured article << Today's featured articles for October 2023 >> Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 October 1 Spit-roasting, from a 1432 manuscript of the Decameron Medieval cuisine includes the foods, diets, and cooking methods of various European cultures from the 5th to the 15th century. Cereals were the most important staple during the Early Middle Ages: barley, oats, and rye were eaten by the poor while wheat was generally more expensive. These were consumed as bread, porridge, gruel, and pasta by people of all classes. Cheese, fruits, and vegetables were important supplements. Meat, including pork, chicken, and other domestic fowl, was more expensive, and game was common only on the nobility's tables. Many freshwater and saltwater fish were also eaten; in the north, cod and herring were mainstays. In contrast to the exotic spices and expensive imported food of the nobility, working-class food was less refined, as mandated by decrees and social norms. A highly spiced sweet-sour food repertory developed among the upper classes in the Late Middle Ages. (Full article...) Recently featured: Secretarybird Hurricane Walaka NERVA Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch October 2 Posthumous painting of Genghis Khan The Baljuna Covenant was an oath sworn in mid-1203 by Temüjin—the future Genghis Khan (depicted)—and the Baljunatu, a small group of companions. Temüjin, khan of the Mongols, had steadily risen in power through the late 12th century in the service of Toghrul, the khan of the Kereit tribe. However, Temüjin was betrayed by Toghrul in early 1203 and subsequently suffered a decisive defeat. He retreated to Baljuna, an unidentified body of water in south-eastern Mongolia, and amidst deprivations swore an oath of mutual fidelity with his companions. Not only did the Covenant promote Temüjin's ideals of social equality, but the oath-takers were themselves ethnically and culturally diverse—among their number were Tengrists like Temüjin, Christians, Muslims, and Buddhists. Three years later in 1206, Temüjin entitled himself Genghis Khan at a kurultai and honoured the Baljunatu with the highest distinctions of his new Mongol Empire. (Full article...) Recently featured: Medieval cuisine Secretarybird Hurricane Walaka Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch October 3 Arthur Wood, the team's top goalscorer The 1919–20 Gillingham Football Club season was their 22nd season in England's Southern League, and their 21st in the league's Division One. George Collins was appointed as Gillingham's new manager, and most of the players were new; the club struggled to find a settled team during the season, fielding nearly 40 players, including 6 goalkeepers. Gillingham finished in 22nd place out of 22 teams but nonetheless gained entry to the national Football League when it absorbed the entirety of the Southern League Division One. Gillingham also competed in the FA Cup, progressing from the sixth qualifying round before losing in the first round proper. The team played 47 competitive matches, winning 11, drawing 10, and losing 26. Arthur Wood (pictured) was the team's top goalscorer, with 12 goals in the league and 14 in total. Tom Leslie made the most appearances, playing 40 times. The highest attendance recorded that season at the club's home ground, Priestfield Road, was approximately 10,000. (Full article...) Recently featured: Baljuna Covenant Medieval cuisine Secretarybird Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch October 4 NBC Tower, Chicago WSNS-TV (channel 44) is a television station in Chicago broadcasting the Spanish-language Telemundo network. It is owned and operated by the network and shares its studios in the NBC Tower (pictured), and its transmitter on the Willis Tower, with WMAQ-TV. WSNS-TV was built as an English-language independent station by the local Essaness Theatres Corporation in 1970; it broadcast local sports, most notably the Chicago White Sox, among other local programs. In 1980, the station began broadcasting ON TV, a pay subscription television service with 120,000 local subscribers at its height in 1982; the station nearly had its broadcast license revoked by the Federal Communications Commission for its lack of local programming during this time. After ON TV folded in 1985, channel 44 became a full-time Spanish-language television station, including local newscasts. Telemundo bought WSNS in 1996; NBC bought Telemundo in 2002, leading to the merger of WMAQ-TV and WSNS-TV. (Full article...) Recently featured: 1919–20 Gillingham F.C. season Baljuna Covenant Medieval cuisine Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch October 5 Chamber of the British House of Commons Prior to 1926, a successful ministerial by-election was required for members of the British House of Commons (pictured) to regain their seats after being made ministers. This requirement originated from 17th-century ideas of parliamentary independence from the Crown, which appoints the ministers; while early attempts were made to fully separate ministers and Parliament in a manner similar to that of the future United States, a compromise was reached instead to merely require new ministers to face a by-election to join Parliament. This by-election was in practice usually, but not always, an uncontested formality, and was gradually reformed before finally being abolished in 1926. Ministerial by-elections spread to British colonies in modern-day Canada and Australia, where they were likewise all abolished by the mid-20th century, ending with Western Australia in 1947; in Canada, they played a major role in the 1926 King–Byng affair before being abolished federally in 1931. (Full article...) Recently featured: WSNS-TV 1919–20 Gillingham F.C. season Baljuna Covenant Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch October 6 Trey Callaway, co-creator Mercy Point is an American science fiction medical drama that aired for seven episodes on UPN in 1998 and 1999. It was adapted from a film screenplay by Trey Callaway (pictured); production on the film project had ended due to the poor commercial performance of the 1997 film Starship Troopers. Starring Joe Morton, Maria del Mar, Alexandra Wilson, Brian McNamara, Salli Richardson, Jordan Lund, and Joe Spano, the series focuses on the doctors and nurses in a 23rd-century hospital space station. It was filmed in Vancouver, Canada. Storylines initially focused on ethical and medical cases, but later shifted to the characters' personal relationships, to better fit UPN's primarily teen demographic. The show suffered from low ratings, and has never been released on DVD or Blu-ray. Some commentators praised the show's characterization and use of science fiction elements, while others found it to be uninteresting and unoriginal. (Full article...) Recently featured: Ministerial by-election WSNS-TV 1919–20 Gillingham F.C. season Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch October 7 Alexander riding Bucephalus, from the Alexander Mosaic Boukephala and Nikaia were two cities founded by Alexander the Great on either side of the Hydaspes river during his invasion of the Indian subcontinent. The cities, two of many founded by Alexander, were built shortly after his victory over the Indian king Porus at the Battle of the Hydaspes in early 326 BC. It is not certain which settlement had which name. Built on the site of the battlefield, the city on the eastern bank was most likely called Nikaia, while its western companion was probably named after Alexander's horse Bucephalus, who died during or after the battle. Their construction was supervised by Craterus, one of Alexander's leading generals. Boukephala seems to have had a more distinguished legacy than Nikaia: it was mentioned by Roman authors and appears on later manuscripts. The cities' precise locations are unknown, but it is considered likely that Boukephala was located in the vicinity of modern Jalalpur, Pakistan, and that Nikaia was across the river near present-day Mong. (Full article...) Recently featured: Mercy Point Ministerial by-election WSNS-TV Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch October 8 Regular triangular tiling of the plane The affine symmetric groups are a family of mathematical structures that describe the symmetries of the number line and the regular triangular tiling of the plane (pictured), as well as related higher-dimensional objects. They may also be defined as collections of permutations (rearrangements) of the integers that are periodic in a certain sense, or in purely algebraic terms as a group with certain generators and relations. They are studied in the fields of combinatorics and representation theory. Each of these groups is an infinite extension of a finite symmetric group, and many important combinatorial properties of the finite symmetric contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 83 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Today%27s_featured_article/October_2023 responseCode 3 200 