eapkfoxejcvehmascmmcvmogvozeogdadojgcciq length 6 216102 page 10030 Palestinian politician (born 1962) Ismail Haniyeh إسماعيل هنية‎ Haniyeh in Kremlin, 2020 Chairman of the Hamas Political Bureau Incumbent Assumed office 6 May 2017 Deputy Saleh al-Arouri[1] Preceded by Khaled Mashal Hamas Chief in the Gaza Strip In office 2 June 2014 – 13 February 2017 Leader Khaled Mashal Succeeded by Yahya Sinwar Prime Minister of the Palestinian National Authority In office 29 March 2006 – 2 June 2014 Disputed from 14 June 2007* President Mahmoud Abbas Aziz Dweik Preceded by Ahmed Qurei Succeeded by Rami Hamdallah Personal details Born (1962-01-29) 29 January 1962 (age 61) Al-Shati refugee camp, Egyptian-occupied Gaza Strip Nationality Palestinian Political party Hamas Children 13 Residence(s) Doha, Qatar Alma mater Islamic University of Gaza *Haniyeh was dismissed on 14 June 2007 by Abbas, who appointed Fayyad instead. This was deemed illegal by the Legislative Council, which continued to recognise Haniyeh. The Palestinian Authority govern the West Bank while Hamas govern the Gaza Strip. A unity government was formed in 2014. Politics of Palestine Officeholders whose status is disputed are shown in italics Member state of the Arab League Government State of Palestine government (Ramallah) President: Mahmoud Abbasa Prime Minister: Mohammad Shtayyeh Hamas government (Gaza) National symbols Flag National anthem Coat of arms Legislative Council Palestinian National Council Palestinian Legislative Council Current members Speaker Aziz Dweik Elections Elections Electoral regions Political parties PLO political parties Next presidential election Next legislative election Administrative divisions Palestinian enclaves Governorates Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Expatriates Minister: Riyad al-Maliki Diplomatic missions of / in Palestine Passport Visa requirements Visa policy Palestinian Ambassador to the United Nations Fatah–Hamas reconciliation process Israeli–Palestinian peace process International recognition Palestine portal Other countries v t e Ismail Haniyeh[a] (born 29 January 1962) is a Palestinian politician who is a senior political leader of Hamas, the current chairman of Hamas’s political bureau; as of 2023, Haniyeh lives in Qatar.[2] Haniyeh was born in the Al-Shati refugee camp in the Gaza Strip in 1962. He studied at the Islamic University of Gaza,[3][4] where he first became involved with Hamas, and graduated with a bachelor's degree in Arabic literature in 1987. Appointed to head a Hamas office in 1997, he has since grown in the ranks of the organization. Haniyeh was head of the Hamas list that won the Palestinian legislative elections of 2006, and so became Prime Minister of the State of Palestine. President Mahmoud Abbas dismissed Haniyeh from office on 14 June 2007 at the height of the Fatah–Hamas conflict, but Haniyeh did not acknowledge the decree and continued to exercise prime ministerial authority in the Gaza Strip.[5] Haniyeh was the leader of Hamas in the Gaza Strip from 2006 until February 2017, when he was replaced by Yahya Sinwar. On 6 May 2017, Haniyeh was elected chairman of Hamas's Political Bureau, replacing Khaled Mashaal; at the time, Haniyeh relocated from Gaza to Qatar.[6][7] Early life and education Haniyeh was born in the Al-Shati refugee camp in the Egyptian-occupied Gaza Strip. His parents became refugees, after they fled their homes near what is now Ashkelon, Israel during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War.[3] He attended United Nations-run schools and graduated from the Islamic University of Gaza with a degree in Arabic literature in 1987.[3][4] While at university, he had become involved with Hamas.[3] From 1985 to 1986, he was head of the students' council representing the Muslim Brotherhood.[4] He also played as a midfielder in the Islamic Association football team.[4] He graduated at about the same time the First Intifada against the Israeli occupation started in the Gaza Strip.[3] Early activism He participated in protests in First Intifada and was given a short prison sentence by an Israeli military court.[3] He was detained by Israel again in 1988 and imprisoned for six months.[3] In 1989, he was imprisoned for three years.[3] Following his release in 1992, the Israeli military authorities of the occupied Palestinian territories deported him to Lebanon with senior Hamas leaders Abdel-Aziz al-Rantissi, Mahmoud Zahhar, Aziz Duwaik, and 400 other activists.[3] The activists stayed at Marj al-Zahour in southern Lebanon for over a year, where according to BBC News, Hamas "received unprecedented media exposure and became known throughout the world".[3] A year later, he returned to Gaza and was appointed dean of the Islamic University.[3] Political career Hamas After Israel released Ahmed Yassin from prison in 1997, Haniyeh was appointed to head his office.[3] His prominence within Hamas grew due to his relationship with Yassin and he was appointed the representative to the Palestinian Authority.[3] His position within Hamas continued to strengthen during the Second Intifada due to his relationship with Yassin, and because of the assassinations of much of the Hamas leadership by the Israeli security forces. He was targeted by the Israel Defense Forces for his alleged involvement in attacks against Israeli citizens. Following a suicide bombing in Jerusalem in 2003, he was slightly injured on his hand by an Israeli Air Force bomb attack attempting to eliminate the Hamas leadership. In December 2005, Haniyeh was elected[citation needed] to head the Hamas list, which won the Legislative Council elections the following month. Haniyeh succeeded Khaled Mashaal's head leadership of Hamas in elections held in 2016.[8] Prime minister Graduation ceremony of police forces in Gaza, 16 June 2012 Haniyeh with Turkish Minister of Culture Numan Kurtulmuş, 20 November 2012 Haniyeh and Khaled Mashal in Gaza, 8 December 2012 See also: First Haniyeh Government Haniyeh was nominated as prime minister on 16 February 2006 following the Hamas "List of Change and Reform" victory on 25 January 2006. He was formally presented to president Mahmoud Abbas on 20 February and was sworn in on 29 March 2006. Western reaction Israel implemented a series of punitive measures, including economic sanctions, against the Palestinian Authority following the election. Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, announced that Israel would not transfer to the Palestinian Authority an estimated $50 million per month in tax receipts that were collected by Israel on behalf of the Palestinian Authority. Haniyeh dismissed the sanctions, stating that Hamas would neither disarm nor would it recognize Israel. Haniyeh expressed regret that Hamas was subjected to punitive measures, adding that "it [Israel] should have responded differently to the democracy expressed by the Palestinian people". The United States demanded that $50 million in unexpended foreign aid funds for the Palestinian Authority be returned to the United States, which Palestinian Economic Minister Mazen Sonokrot agreed to do.[9] On the loss of foreign aid from the United States and the European Union, Haniyeh commented that: "The West is always using its donations to apply pressure on the Palestinian people."[10] Several months after Hamas' 2006 election victory, Haniyeh sent a letter to US President Bush, in which he called on the "American government to have direct negotiations with the elected government", offered a long-term truce with Israel, while accepting a Palestinian state within the 1967 borders and urged an end the international boycott, claiming that it would "encourage violence and chaos". The U.S. government did not respond and maintained its boycott.[11] Dispute with Abbas See also: Fatah–Hamas conflict An agreement with Abbas was to have been reached to stop Abbas's call for new elections. On 20 October 2006, on the eve of this deal to end factional fighting between Fatah and Hamas, Haniyeh's convoy came under gunfire in Gaza and one of the cars was set on fire.[12] Haniyeh was not hurt in the attack. Hamas sources said that this was not an assassination attempt. Palestinian Authority security sources reported that the attackers were the relatives of a Fatah man killed by clashes with Hamas.[13] Denied reentry to Gaza During the simmering Fatah–Hamas conflict, on 14 December 2006, Haniyeh was denied entry to Gaza from Egypt at the Rafah Border Crossing. The border crossing was closed by order of Israeli Minister of Defence, Amir Peretz. Haniyeh was returning to Gaza from his first official trip abroad as prime minister. He was carrying an estimated 30 million USD in cash, intended for Palestinian Authority payments. Israeli authorities later stated that they would allow Haniyeh to cross the border provided he leave the money in Egypt, which would reportedly be transferred to an Arab League bank account. A gun battle between Hamas militants and the Palestinian Presidential Guard was reported at the Rafah Border Crossing in response to the incident. The EU monitors who operated the crossing were reportedly evacuated safely.[14] When Haniyeh later attempted to cross the border, an exchange of gunfire left one bodyguard dead and Haniyeh's eldest son wounded. Hamas denounced the incident as an attempt by rival Fatah on Haniyeh's life, prompting firefights in the West Bank and Gaza Strip between Hamas and Fatah forces. Haniyeh was quoted as saying that he knew who the alleged perpetrators were, but declined to identify them and appealed for Palestinian unity. Egypt has since offered to mediate the situation.[15] Palestinian National Unity Government of March 2007 Main article: Second Haniyeh Government Haniyeh and Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei in 2012 Haniyeh resigned on 15 February 2007 as part of the process to form a national unity government between Hamas and Fatah.[16] He formed a new government on 18 March 2007 as head of a new cabinet that included Fatah as well as Hamas politicians.[17] On 14 June 2007, amid the  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Ismail_Haniyeh responseCode 3 200 