earcoimanadkakuavchqoccctsbaictkjiisioeq length 5 78738 page 4840 v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips Template documentation[view] [edit] [history] [purge] Usage[edit] This template's initial visibility currently defaults to autocollapse, meaning that if there is another collapsible item on the page (a navbox, sidebar, or table with the collapsible attribute), it is hidden apart from its title bar; if not, it is fully visible. To change this template's initial visibility, the |state= parameter may be used: {{Basic information|state=collapsed}} will show the template collapsed, i.e. hidden apart from its title bar. {{Basic information|state=expanded}} will show the template expanded, i.e. fully visible. Purposes[edit] Similar to the Template:Wikipedia help pages, but simplified. But all the links of that template should be able to be accessed if the links at the top of the navbox are accessed (i.e. Help Menu; Tutorials and introductions; The Missing Manual; Noticeboards; FAQs; Reference desk). In addition, some extra links from Category:Wikipedia basic information are included, as well as some other links. Also, the links are rearranged into different groups, which should be self-explanatory. Help menu: the 13 links are not included, but the Help menu link is at the top of the navbox. Tutorials and introductions: this is included at the top of the navbox. Most tutorials and introductions are included in the navbox, but they are included within the other groups, e.g. [[Help:Navigation|Navigation]] ([[Help:Introduction to navigating Wikipedia/1|Introduction]]), producing Navigation (Introduction). The Missing Manual: the 25 links from the book are not included, but there is a link for the book contents at the top of the screen. FAQs: the numerous FAQs (apart from the readers' one) are not included, but there is a link to the FAQ index at the top. Noticeboards: most of the noticeboards are not listed, but there is a link at the top to a page, to a page with a navbox listing them all. Reference desk: the reference desk subjects are not listed, but there is a link at the top of the navbox, to a page listing them all. In addition: Additional links are included, including some from Category:Wikipedia basic information. Links are rearranged into different groups. The above documentation is transcluded from Template:Basic information/doc. (edit | history) Editors can experiment in this template's sandbox (create | mirror) and testcases (create) pages. Add categories to the /doc subpage. Subpages of this template. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Template:Basic_information responseCode 3 200 