ecncckckbmgaeioenonewieelkkapceazkiavcns page 10005 Body of one or more persons that is subordinate to a deliberative assembly For other uses, see Committee (disambiguation). Part of the Politics series Politics Outline Index Category Primary topics Outline of political science Index of politics articles Politics by country Politics by subdivision Political economy Political history Political history of the world Political philosophy Political systems Anarchy City-state Democracy Dictatorship Directorial Federacy Feudalism Hybrid regime Meritocracy Monarchy Parliamentary Presidential Republic Semi-parliamentary Semi-presidential Theocracy Academic disciplines Political science (political scientists) International relations (theory) Comparative politics Political analysis Political theory Policy studies Political psychology Political sociology Public administration Bureaucracy (street-level) Technocracy Adhocracy Policy Public policy (doctrine) Domestic policy Foreign policy Civil society Public interest Government branches Separation of powers Legislature Executive Judiciary Election commission Related topics Sovereignty Polity / State (Politeia / Nation / Civilization / Territorial / Quasi / Warlord) Theories of political behavior Biology and political orientation Political organisations Critique of political economy Subseries Electoral systems Elections voting Unitarism Federalism Government forms Ideology Political campaigning Political parties Politics portal v t e Committee room, designed in 1901, in Halifax Town Hall A committee or commission is a body of one or more persons subordinate to a deliberative assembly. A committee is not itself considered to be a form of assembly. Usually, the assembly sends matters into a committee as a way to explore them more fully than would be possible if the assembly itself were considering them. Committees may have different functions and their types of work differ depending on the type of the organization and its needs. A member of a legislature may be delegated a committee assignment, which gives them the right to serve on a certain committee.[1] Purpose[edit] A deliberative assembly may form a committee (or "commission") consisting of one or more persons to assist with the work of the assembly.[2] For larger organizations, much work is done in committees.[3] Committees can be a way to formally draw together people of relevant expertise from different parts of an organization who otherwise would not have a good way to share information and coordinate actions. They may have the advantage of widening viewpoints and sharing out responsibilities. They can also be appointed with experts to recommend actions in matters that require specialized knowledge or technical judgment. Functions[edit] Committees can serve several different functions: Governance In organizations considered too large for all the members to participate in decisions affecting the organization as a whole, a smaller body, such as a board of directors, is given the power to make decisions, spend money, or take actions. A governance committee is formed as a separate committee to review the performance of the board and board policy as well as nominate candidates for the board.[4] Coordination and administration A large body may have smaller committees with more specialized functions. Examples are an audit committee, an elections committee, a finance committee, a fundraising committee, and a program committee. Large conventions or academic conferences are usually organized by a coordinating committee drawn from the membership of the organization. Research and recommendations Committees may be formed to do research and make recommendations on a potential or planned project or change. For example, an organization considering a major capital investment might create a temporary working committee of several people to review options and make recommendations to upper management or the board of directors. Discipline A committee on discipline may be used to handle disciplinary procedures on members of the organization.[5] As a tactic for indecision As a means of public relations by sending sensitive, inconvenient, or irrelevant matters to committees, organizations may bypass, stall, or disacknowledge matters without declaring a formal policy of inaction or indifference. However, this could be considered a dilatory tactic.[6] Power and authority[edit] Generally, committees are required to report to their parent body. Committees do not usually have the power to act independently unless the body that created it gives it such power.[3] Procedures[edit] Meeting of the Constitutional Law Committee of the Finnish Parliament [fi] (Finnish: Perustuslakivaliokunta) at the House of the Estates in Helsinki, Finland in 1918. The chairman of the committee, K. J. Ståhlberg, at the left end of the table with his back to the camera. When a committee is formed, a chairman (or "chair" or "chairperson") is designated for the committee.[7] Sometimes a vice-chairman (or similar name) is also appointed.[8] It is common for the committee chairman to organize its meetings. Sometimes these meetings are held through videoconferencing or other means if committee members are not able to attend in person, as may be the case if they are in different parts of the country or the world. The chairman is responsible for running meetings. Duties include keeping the discussion on the appropriate subject, recognizing members to speak, and confirming what the committee has decided (through voting or by unanimous consent). Using Roberts Rules of Order Newly Revised (RONR), committees may follow informal procedures (such as not requiring motions if it's clear what is being discussed).[9] The level of formality depends on the size and type of committee, in which sometimes larger committees considering crucial issues may require more formal processes. Minutes are a record of the decisions at meetings. They can be taken by a person designated as the secretary. For most organizations, committees are not required to keep formal minutes.[9] However, some bodies require that committees take minutes, especially if the committees are public ones subject to open meeting laws. Committees may meet on a regular basis, such as weekly or more often, or meetings may be called irregularly as the need arises. The frequency of the meetings depends on the work of the committee and the needs of the parent body. When the committee completes its work, it provides the results in a report to its parent body. The report may include the methods used, the facts uncovered, the conclusions reached, and any recommendations.[10] If the committee is not ready to report, it may provide a partial report or the assembly may discharge the committee of the matter so that the assembly can handle it. Also, if members of the committee are not performing their duties, they may be removed or replaced by the appointing power.[11] Whether the committee continues to exist after presenting its report depends on the type of committee. Generally, committees established by the bylaws or the organization's rules continue to exist, while committees formed for a particular purpose go out of existence after the final report. Commit (motion)[edit] Commit (RONR) Class Subsidiary motion Requires second? Yes Debatable? Yes, although debate on the motion must be confined to its merits only, and cannot go into the main question except as necessary for debate of the immediately pending question. May be reconsidered? Yes, if a committee has not begun consideration of the question. A negative vote on this motion can be reconsidered only until such time as progress in business or debate has made it essentially a new question. Amendable? Yes Vote required Majority In parliamentary procedure, the motion to commit (or refer) is used to refer another motion—usually a main motion—to a committee. A motion to commit should specify to which committee the matter is to be referred, and if the committee is a special committee appointed specifically for purposes of the referred motion, it should also specify the number of committee members and the method of their selection, unless that is specified in the bylaws.[12] Any proposed amendments to the main motion that are pending at the time the motion is referred to a committee go to the committee as well.[11] Once referred, but before the committee reports its recommendations back to the assembly, the referred motion may be removed from the committee's consideration by the motion to discharge a committee. Recommit[edit] In the United States House of Representatives, a motion to recommit can be made with or without instructions. If the motion is made without instructions, the bill or resolution is simply sent back to the committee. If the motion is made with instructions and the motion is agreed to, the chairman of the committee in question will immediately report the bill or resolution back to the whole House with the new language. In this sense, a motion to recommit with instructions is effectively an amendment.[13] Variations for full assembly consideration[edit] In Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised (RONR), the motion to commit has three variations which do not turn a question over to a smaller group, but simply permit the assembly's full meeting body to consider it with the greater freedom of debate that is allowed to committees. These forms are to go into a committee of the whole, to go into a quasi-committee of the whole, and to consider informally. Passing any of these motions removes the limitations on the number of times a member can speak.[14] The Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure has informal consideration, but does not have "committee of the whole" and "quasi committee of the whole".[15] Discharge a committee[edit] Discharge a committee (RONR) Class Motion that brings a question again before the assembly In order when another has the floor? No Requires second? Yes Debatable? Yes; debate can go into question in han contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Steering_committee responseCode 3 200 