eibepshcdedaaqmghqpepoliaoimmcmqbeksuqie length 5 74469 page 3497 Main Good and featured DYKs All-time DYK pageview leaders Monthly DYK pageview leaders Monthly summary statistics Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This Did you know statistics (DYK STATS) page is an attempt to recognize the DYK entries that have distinguished themselves, either by receiving an unusually high number of page views while being featured on DYK, or by going on to become some of Wikipedia's best content after appearing at DYK. The page illustrates the types of hooks that have been particularly successful in attracting readers. The statistics can be manually or semi-automatically updated. For page view counts, there are separate lists for the all-time top hooks and the most effective hooks on a monthly basis. If you have thoughts on the format of this page, or whether it is useful, please post your comments on the Discussion page. Please do not see this list as a competition, but rather a celebration of some of the most effective DYK hooks. Please note that hits from outside the DYK section of the main page are also included here. That might include random clicks or direct searches, but also views from other parts of the main page which feature the same article on the same day. See also[edit] DYK Hall of Fame – for outstanding contributions to the DYK project as a whole; Multiple Article Hook Hall of Fame List of Wikipedians by number of DYKs – for lists of users who have created or nominated the greatest number of DYK articles. v t e Main Page and featured content Main Page topics Errors Administrator instructions Main Page alternatives FAQ Editing Design Queue Yesterday Tomorrow History Wikipedia languages Sister projects Sandbox April Fools' Day Don't delete! Today's featured article Requests Pending requests Recent Oddities Most viewed Not yet used Featured articles Criteria Candidates Log Review Archive Statistics Former featured articles Unreviewed Did you know... Discussion Rules Guidelines Nominations Reviewing guide Preps & Queues Archive Stats In the news Error reports Nominations Discussion Admin guide General criteria Death criteria Recurring items Awards Sports Discussion Archives Candidate archives Current events portal Current events portal for sports Discussion How the Current events portal works How to archive the portal Selected anniversaries Discussion Holidays and observances All Today's featured list Submissions Statistics Previously run lists Get involved Featured lists Criteria Candidates Log Task force Removal candidates Review list Log Former featured lists Picture of the day Guidelines Unused Archive Tomorrow Featured pictures Criteria Candidates Nomination procedure Featured topics Featured topics on the main page Candidates Log Nomination procedure Criteria Removal candidates Good topics Former featured topics Featured topic questions contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 67 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Did_you_know/Statistics responseCode 3 200 