ekmgwidoroscomkaesgczmfcmeymzclofcdgjmyo length 6 129104 page 9181 Species of turtle Burmese roofed turtle Female Conservation status Critically Endangered (IUCN 3.1)[1] CITES Appendix II (CITES)[1] Scientific classification Domain: Eukaryota Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genus: Batagur Species: B. trivittata Binomial name Batagur trivittata (Duméril & Bibron, 1835)[2] Synonyms[3] Emys trivittata Duméril & Bibron, 1835 Batagur trivittata Theobald, 1868 Kachuga peguensis Gray, 1869 Kachuga trilineata Gray, 1869 Kachuga fusca Gray, 1870 Batagur iravadica Anderson, 1879 Clemmys iravadica Boettger, 1888 Kachuga trivittata Boulenger, 1889 Kachuga (Pangshura) trivitata Gurley, 2003 (ex errore) The Burmese roofed turtle (Batagur trivittata) is one of six turtle species in the genus Batagur of the family Geoemydidae.[2] It is a freshwater turtle endemic to Myanmar and was thought to be extinct until rediscovered in 2002. Less than 10 mature individuals were known by 2018.[1] The female Burmese roofed turtle grows significantly larger than the male; the male's usually green head transforms during the breeding season to a bright chartreuse-yellow with bold black markings.[4] In 2007, an illegally traded individual was seen in Qingping market in Guangzhou, China.[5] Conservation[edit] The Burmese roofed turtle is nationally protected and listed in CITES Appendix II. The captive population in five zoos comprised about 1,000 individuals as of 2018.[1] Several hundred Burmese roofed turtles are kept in the Yadanabon Zoological Gardens in Mandalay and a turtle conservation center in Lawkananda Park, Bagan. Some have been released to the wild. In the years that followed, researchers found several specimens of the Burmese roofed turtle and took them to captivity.[6] Burmese roofed turtles (Batagur trivittata) at the Singapore Zoo. References[edit] ^ a b c d Platt, K.; Horne, B.D.; Praschag, P. (2019). "Batagur trivittata". IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 2019: e.T10952A152044061. doi:10.2305/IUCN.UK.2019-1.RLTS.T10952A152044061.en. Retrieved 8 February 2022. ^ a b Rhodin, A.G.J.; van Dijk, P.P.; Inverson, J.B.; Shaffer, H.B. (2010). "Turtles of the world, 2010 update: Annotated checklist of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution and conservation status". Chelonian Research Monographs. 5: 107–108. doi:10.3854/crm.5.000.checklist.v3.2010. ISBN 978-0965354097. ^ Fritz, U.; Havaš, P. (2007). "Checklist of Chelonians of the World" (PDF). Vertebrate Zoology. 57 (2): 226. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-05-01. Retrieved 29 May 2012. ^ Nuwer, R. (2020). "A Turtle With a Permanent Smile Was Brought Back From Extinction". The New York Times. Retrieved 2020-09-03. ^ Kuchling, G. (2007). "China Market: Turtle market survey in China reveals disturbing number of Myanmar endemics and critically endangered species" (PDF). Turtle Survival Alliance Newsletter (August): 8–9. ^ Platt, S. (2015). "Burmese Roofed Turtles Return to the Wild". Turtle Survival Alliance. Retrieved 8 February 2022. External links[edit] v t e Family Geoemydidae Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genera Species of the family Geoemydidae †Banhxeochelys †Banhxeochelys trani Batagur Burmese roofed turtle Northern river terrapin Painted terrapin Red-crowned roofed turtle Southern river terrapin Three-striped roofed turtle Cuora Amboina box turtle Bourret's box turtle Indochinese box turtle McCord's box turtle Keeled box turtle Pan's box turtle Southern Vietnamese box turtle Golden coin turtle Vietnamese three-striped box turtle Yellow-headed box turtle Chinese box turtle Yunnan box turtle Zhou's box turtle Cyclemys Asian leaf turtle Assam leaf turtle Eastern black-bridged leaf turtle Enigmatic leaf turtle Myanmar brown leaf turtle Oldham's leaf turtle Western black-bridged leaf turtle †Echmatemys †Echmatemys septaria †Echmatemys stevensoniana †Echmatemys wyomingensis Geoclemys Black pond turtle Geoemyda Black-breasted leaf turtle Ryukyu black-breasted leaf turtle Hardella Brahminy river turtle Heosemys Arakan forest turtle Giant Asian pond turtle Spiny turtle Yellow-headed temple turtle Leucocephalon Sulawesi forest turtle Malayemys Malayan snail-eating turtle Mekong snail-eating turtle Khorat snail-eating turtle Mauremys Balkan pond turtle Caspian turtle Chinese pond turtle Chinese stripe-necked turtle Japanese pond turtle Red-necked pond turtle Spanish pond turtle Vietnamese pond turtle Yellow pond turtle Melanochelys Indian black turtle Tricarinate hill turtle Morenia Burmese eyed turtle Indian eyed turtle Notochelys Malayan flat-shelled turtle Orlitia Malaysian giant turtle Pangshura Assam roofed turtle Brown roofed turtle Indian roofed turtle Indian tent turtle †Pangshura tatrotia Rhinoclemmys Black wood turtle Brown wood turtle Colombian wood turtle Furrowed wood turtle Large-nosed wood turtle Maracaibo wood turtle Mexican spotted wood turtle Painted wood turtle Spot-legged wood turtle †Rhinoclemmys panamaensis Sacalia Beale's eyed turtle Four-eyed turtle Siebenrockiella Black marsh turtle Philippine forest turtle Vijayachelys Cane turtle Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on turtles of the world 2017 update: Annotated checklist and atlas of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution, and conservation status. †=Extinct. v t e Testudines Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder Superfamily Family Genus Cryptodira Chelonioidea (Sea turtles) Cheloniidae †Allopleuron Caretta †Carolinochelys Chelonia †Eochelone Eretmochelys †Gigantatypus †Glarichelys †Itilochelys Lepidochelys †Mexichelys †Miocaretta Natator †Pacifichelys †Syllomus †Tasbacka Dermochelyidae †Arabemys †Bouliachelys †Corsochelys †Cosmochelys Dermochelys †Eosphargis †Mesodermochelys †Psephophorus †Euclastes †Peritresius †Procolpochelys †Protosphargis †Puppigerus Kinosternoidea Dermatemydidae Dermatemys Kinosternidae Claudius †Hoplochelys Kinosternon Staurotypus Sternotherus Testudinoidea Emydidae Chrysemys Clemmys Deirochelys Emys Actinemys Emydoidea Glyptemys Graptemys Malaclemys Pseudemys Terrapene Trachemys Geoemydidae Batagur †Banhxeochelys Cuora Cyclemys Geoclemys Geoemyda Hardella Heosemys Leucocephalon Malayemys Mauremys Melanochelys Morenia Notochelys Orlitia Pangshura Rhinoclemmys Sacalia Siebenrockiella Vijayachelys Platysternidae Platysternon Testudinidae Aldabrachelys Astrochelys Centrochelys Chelonoidis Chersina Cylindraspis Geochelone Gopherus †Hadrianus †Hesperotestudo Homopus Indotestudo Kinixys Malacochersus Manouria †Megalochelys Psammobates Pyxis †Solitudo Stigmochelys †Stylemys Testudo Trionychia Carettochelyidae †Allaeochelys †Anosteira Carettochelys Trionychidae Amyda Apalone †Axestemys Chitra Cyclanorbis Cycloderma †Drazinderetes Dogania †Gilmoremys †Hutchemys †Khunnuchelys Lissemys Nilssonia Palea †Palaeoamyda Pelochelys Pelodiscus Rafetus Trionyx †Basilochelys †Sinaspideretes Chelydridae †Acherontemys Chelydra †Chelydrops †Chelydropsis †Emarginachelys †Macrocephalochelys Macrochelys †Planiplastron †Protochelydra †Nanhsiungchelyidae †Anomalochelys †Basilemys †Jiangxichelys †Protostegidae †Alienochelys †Archelon †Atlantochelys †Calcarichelys †Cratochelone †Desmatochelys †Iserosaurus †Notochelone †Ocepechelon †Pneumatoarthrus †Protostega †Rhinochelys †Santanachelys †Terlinguachelys †Adocus †Argillochelys †Bashuchelys †Ctenochelys †Prionochelys †Toxochelys Pleurodira †Araripemydidae †Araripemys †Bothremydidae †Araiochelys †Arenila †Azabbaremys †Bothremys †Cearachelys †Chedighaii †Chupacabrachelys †Eotaphrosphys †Foxemys †Galianemys †Ilatardia †Inaechelys †Itapecuruemys †Jainemys †Kinkonychelys †Kurmademys †Labrostochelys †Nigeremys †Phosphatochelys †Polysternon †Puentemys †Rosasia †Rhothonemys †Sankuchemys †Taphrosphys †Ummulisani †Zolhafah Chelidae Acanthochelys Chelodina Chelus Elseya Elusor Emydura Hydromedusa †Lomalatachelys Mesoclemmys Myuchelys Phrynops Platemys †Prochelidella Pseudemydura Rheodytes Rhinemys †Yaminuechelys Pelomedusidae Pelomedusa Pelusios Podocnemididae †Albertwoodemys †Bauruemys †Brontochelys †Caninemys †Carbonemys †Cerrejonemys †Cordichelys Erymnochelys †Lapparentemys †Latentemys Peltocephalus Podocnemis †Stupendemys †Sahonachelyidae †Sahonachelys †Sokatra †Caribemys †Caririemys †Tacuarembemys Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on Turtles of the World 2017 Update: Annotated Checklist and Atlas of Taxonomy, Synonymy, Distribution, and Conservation Status. † = extinct. See also List of Testudines families Taxon identifiers Wikidata: Q306287 Wikispecies: Batagur trivittata BOLD: 279936 CoL: KVXR GBIF: 5789401 iNaturalist: 73700 ITIS: 949147 IUCN: 10952 NCBI: 686919 RD: trivittata Species+: 4397 This article about a turtle is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Burmese_roofed_turtle responseCode 3 200 