ekocqouabiemrevowmfspinmbogilemqbgtalkeq length 6 106579 page 5452 Town in Shan State, Myanmar Chinshwehaw ချင်းရွှေဟော်မြို့ Town Chinshwehaw Location in Myanmar Coordinates: 23°28′32″N 98°49′27″E﻿ / ﻿23.475573°N 98.824194°E﻿ / 23.475573; 98.824194 Country Myanmar State Shan State Self-administered zone Kokang District Laukkaing District Township Laukkaing Township Population (2014)[1] • Town 4,889 • Urban 3,138 • Rural 2,752 Time zone UTC+6.30 (MST) Chinshwehaw (Burmese: ချင်းရွှေဟော်မြို့) is a town in Laukkaing Township, Laukkaing District, Shan State of Myanmar.[2]The town borders Qingshuihe Village of the Gengma Dai and Va Autonomous County, Yunnan Province, China. The town is home to one of 5 official border trade posts with China, and opened on 19 October 2003.[3] In 2022, total trade volume at the border post stood at US$283.396 million.[4] On 28 October 2023 it was reported that the town had come fully under control of the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) during the ongoing civil war.[5] References[edit] ^ The 2014 Myanmar Population and Housing Census Highlights of the Main Results Census Report Volume 2 – A. Department of Population Ministry of Immigration and Population. 2015. p. 65. ^ "District Map - Shan State (North)" (PDF). Myanmar Information Management Unit. September 2016. Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 March 2017. Retrieved 17 March 2017. ^ "Border Trade Posts". Ministry of Commerce. Retrieved 2023-03-05. ^ "Border Trade Data". Ministry of Commerce. 2023-02-24. Retrieved 2023-03-05. ^ Zan, Hein Htoo (2023-10-28). "Ethnic Alliance Report Rapid Gains From Myanmar Junta Along Chinese Border". The Irrawaddy. Retrieved 2023-10-28. v t e Shan State Capital: Taunggyi East Shan State Kengtung District Kengtung Township Mong Khet Township Mong La Township (SR4) Mong Yang Township Mine Pauk Subtownship Minelar Subtownship Mong Hpayak District Mong Hpayak Township (SR4) Mong Yawng Township Mineyu Subtownship Mong Hsat District Mong Hsat Township Mong Ping Township Mong Tong Township Minekoke Subtownship Monehta Subtownship Ponparkyin Subtownship Tontar Subtownship Tachileik District Tachileik Township Kyaing Lap Subtownship (Kenglap) Talay Subtownship North Shan State Kunlong District Kunlong Township Kyaukme District Hsipaw Township Kyaukme Township Namtu Township Nawnghkio Township Minelon Subtownship Minengaw Subtownship Lashio District Hseni Township Lashio Township Mongyai Township Tangyan Township Laukkaing District see Kokang Self-Administered Zone Mu Se District Kutkai Township Mu Se Township Nanhkan Township Manhero Subtownship Monekoe Subtownship Pansai Subtownship (Kyu-kok) Tamoenye Subtownship Hopang District see Wa Self-Administered Division Matman District see Wa Self-Administered Division Mongmit District Mabein Township Mongmit Township Kokang Self-Administered Zone Laukkaing Township Konkyan Township Chinshwehaw Subtownship Mawhtike Subtownship Pa Laung Self-Administered Zone1 Mantong Township1 Namhsan Township1 Wa Self-Administered Division Hopang Township Mongmaw Township (Minemaw) Pangwaun Township (Panwine) Namtit Subtownship Panlong Subtownship Matman Township (Metman) Namphan Township (Naphang) Pangsang Township (Pan San) Man Kan Subtownship South Shan State Langkho District Langhko Township Mawkmai Township Mong Nai Township Mong Pan Township Homane Subtownship Kengtaung Subtownship Loilen District Kunhing Township Kyethi Township Lai-Hka Township Loilen Township Mong Hsu Township Mong Kung Township Nansang Township Karli Subtownship Kholan Subtownship Minenaung Subtownship Minesan Subtownship Panglong Subtownship Taunggyi District Kalaw Township Lawksawk Township Nyaungshwe Township Pekon Township Taunggyi Township Indaw Subtownship Kyauktalongyi Subtownship Naungtayar Subtownship Danu Self-Administered Zone Pindaya Township Ywangan Township Pa-O Self-Administered Zone Hopong Township Hsi Hseng Township Pinlaung Township Main cities and towns Taunggyi Aungban Ayetharyar Chinshwehaw Hong Pai Hopang Hopong Hseni Hsi Hseng Hsipaw Kalaw Kengtung Kunhing Kunlong Kutkai Kyaukme Kyethi Lai-Hka Langkho Lashio Laukkaing Lawksawk Loilen Mabein Mantong Mawkmai Mong Hpayak Mong Hsat Mong Hsu Mong Khet Mong Kung Mong Nai Mong Pan Mong Ping Mong Ton Mong Yang Mong Yawng Mongko Mongmit Mongyai Muse Nanhkan Namhsan Namtu Nansang Nawnghkio Nyaungshwe Panglong Pekon Pinlaung Tachileik Tangyan 1 - also part of Kyaukme District v t e Border crossings of Myanmar Bangladesh Maungdaw (Teknaf) China v t e China–Myanmar border crossings Yunnan–Shan State Diphu Pass Chinshwehaw–Qingshuihe Laukkai–Nansan Manhero–Yinjingzhai Mong La–Daluo Mong Ko–Manghai, Mangshi Muse–Ruili Namtit–Mangka Pangkham–Menglian Pang Hseng–Wanding Yunnan–Kachin State Lweje–Zhangfeng Laiza–Nabang Kanpaikti–Houqiao Mai Ja Yang–Zhangfeng Pang War–Diantan Hpimaw–Pianma India Mizoram Kawrpuichhuah (Lunglei district) Zorinpui (Lawngtlai district / Kaladan) Rikhawdar-Khawmawi (Zokhawthar of Champhai district) Bangladesh via Mizoram Other Tamu (Moreh) Khenman (Behiang) Laos Kenglat (Xieng Kok) Thailand Myawaddy (Mae Sot) Tachileik (Mae Sai) Kawthaung (Ranong) Htee Khee (Phu Nam Ron) Maw Daung (Singkhon Pass) Payathonzu (Sangkhla Buri and Three Pagodas Pass) Sinbyudaing (Bong Ti) Laos via Thailand This Shan State location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 45 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Chinshwehaw responseCode 3 200 