ekpkhmbmvohohinsimlobojckiscgabkzklqjoaq length 6 339929 page 10003 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 31 May 2020 12:00, 31 May 2020 (UTC) Orlando Julius ... that Robin Denselow of The Guardian called Orlando Julius (pictured) "one of the heroes of Nigerian music"? ... that after a 20-year search, a gun barrel from the HMAS Sydney and a gun shield from the HMAS Adelaide, discovered on a rubbish tip, were fitted together and put on display at Leighton Battery? ... that damage to the Verizon Building during the September 11 attacks, though substantial, was limited by its heavy masonry construction? ... that with his victory at The Big House 9, Zackray became the first Japanese player to win a premier-tier Super Smash Bros. tournament held outside Japan? ... that the former operator of the Q38 bus route was not compensated for the route's takeover, as their equipment was considered obsolete? ... that the spiral galaxy NGC 3393 hosts the nearest known pair of supermassive black holes? ... that the birthplace of Beatles drummer Ringo Starr in the Welsh Streets, Liverpool, was nearly demolished in the 2000s? ... that William Henry Harrison III and William Henry Harrison served simultaneously in the Wyoming House of Representatives, and both had sons named William Henry Harrison? 00:00, 31 May 2020 (UTC) Sun bear ... that the sun bear (pictured) is the smallest of all bear species? ... that actress Natalie Portman was nominated for an Oscar for playing the First Lady of the United States? ... that in the Carceri Nuove jail in Rome, seventeen dungeons were named after saints? ... that the Jersey scrum-half Will Homer led criticism of plans by the Rugby Football Union to cut funding to RFU Championship clubs by 40 per cent? ... that on MTV's The Unplugged Collection, Volume One, Neil Young rescored "Like a Hurricane" using harmonica and pump organ? ... that the rough sex murder defense asserts that a victim died accidentally during consensual sex? ... that William Birchall may have impressed one of the local militia, but the rest were most unimpressed? ... that Badluram's body is buried, yet we get his rations? 30 May 2020 12:00, 30 May 2020 (UTC) Hilarimorphites burmanica ... that members of the fly family Apystomyiidae (example depicted) have been found in Late Jurassic sediments in Kazakhstan? ... that Tove Lo's song "Cool Girl" was inspired by the monologue of the same name by a character in the 2014 film Gone Girl? ... that the men of Wade's Battery attempted to tunnel beneath enemy lines during the Siege of Vicksburg? ... that Henrietta Garnett travelled England in a convoy of horse-drawn caravans in support of peace and love, later calling the group "chequebook hippies"? ... that the needle telegraph built by Carl Friedrich Gauss and Wilhelm Eduard Weber had a needle weighing at least 25 lb (11 kg)? ... that months into the Philippines' coronavirus quarantine, the Bureau of Immigration Bicutan Detention Center remained grossly overcrowded, with only two pregnant women having been bailed? ... that in 2015, Eva Asderaki became the first woman to umpire a men's US Open tennis final? ... that the unlit tunnel at Salem station was "happily known as the 'Kissing-Bridge'" of the rail line? 00:00, 30 May 2020 (UTC) "Never again" memorial at Treblinka ... that U.S. presidents Carter, Reagan, Bush, Clinton, and Obama vowed "never again" (memorial pictured), but genocide took place during each of their presidencies? ... that prior to the event, bookmakers' odds against Joe Johnson winning the 1986 World Snooker Championship were 150 to 1? ... that a redundant jail, saved from demolition when an author bought it for $25 for use as his writing studio, later became the Old Jail Art Center? ... that residents of Rankin Inlet, Nunavut, blocked access to a local goldmine over fears of COVID-19, even though Nunavut had no confirmed cases? ... that Lady Bathurst, once described as "the most powerful woman in England, without exception other than royalty", lived in relative obscurity for the last four decades of her life? ... that the hymn "Liebster Jesu, wir sind hier", a prayer for illumination because the human mind is "shrouded in darkness", became popular in English as "Blessed Jesus, at your word"? ... that a 2013 study by the National Park Service determined that the First Battle of Newtonia Historic District was not suitable for inclusion in its list of official units? ... that the frog Boophis fayi can be identified by its unusual green-and-turquoise eyes? 29 May 2020 12:00, 29 May 2020 (UTC) DV4 electric dustcart ... that a DV4 electric dustcart (example pictured) continued to run after being hit by a bomb during the Second World War? ... that American-colonial minister William Tennent III was known as the "Firebrand Parson" due to his strong support of religious and civil liberty? ... that up to 75 percent of the surface of Pluto is both tropical and arctic? ... that music academy director Hermann Reutter composed "Hymne an Deutschland", which President Theodor Heuss suggested as a new German national anthem after World War II? ... that a normally closed entrance to Hynes Convention Center station is opened for Boston Marathon spectators and anime fans? ... that Möngke Khan was the only khagan to die in an attack on the Sichuan anti-Mongol fortresses? ... that Linda Liau has developed a personalized vaccine against brain cancer? ... that the audiobook Talking to Strangers has its own theme song, "Hell You Talmbout"? 00:00, 29 May 2020 (UTC) Doja Cat ... that in her self-made music video for "Mooo!", Doja Cat (pictured) raps in front of a green screen that alternates between cartoon GIFs of food, farms, and bouncing anime breasts? ... that the Midweek Herald edition for Cranbrook, Devon, accidentally published a news report about Cranbrook Rugby Football Club in Kent, 200 miles (320 km) away? ... that Australian actress Betty Bryant was honoured by Hillary Clinton for her humanitarian service? ... that Takapūneke, which is sacred to the Māori and may become a national reserve of New Zealand, is the site of Akaroa's sewage-treatment plant? ... that Thomas Brodie may have been in command of HMS Arrow at the 1801 Battle of Copenhagen, not William Bolton as often recorded? ... that Sid Meier prototyped the interleaved turns system in XCOM: Chimera Squad using a game engine that he had developed over a period of around twenty years? ... that workplace hazard controls for COVID-19 include measures for psychosocial hazards such as stress and anxiety, for which social distancing may prevent typical coping mechanisms? ... that interior designer Valerian Rybar's dining room was lined with 400 fake books with titles about episodes in his life, including International Boredom, allegedly about his ex-wife? 28 May 2020 12:00, 28 May 2020 (UTC) Japanese incense burner in the Khalili Collection ... that Nasser Khalili's 1,400-piece collection of Meiji-era Japanese art (object pictured) is equalled only by the Japanese imperial collection in size and quality? ... that the video game The Longing can take up to 400 days to complete? ... that citizen journalist Chen Qiushi went missing while reporting on the COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan? ... that after Congress limited presidential power granted by the Forest Reserve Act of 1891, President Theodore Roosevelt quickly protected 16 million acres of forest while the bill sat on his desk? ... that Quentin Edwards was asked not to return to Bradfield College after a schoolmaster found passionate letters sent to him by John Mortimer? ... that Venezuela won its first Olympic medal in 1952 with triple jumper Asnoldo Devoni contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 69 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2020/May responseCode 3 200 