emmgispibmjcckpaioakfgemdciatejmlsoolovs length 6 203373 page 10075 "Union of Burma" changed to "Union of Myanmar" in 1989. Politics of Myanmar Constitution 2008 Constitution Constitutional Tribunal Chairman: Than Kyaw National Defence and Security Council Government President (list) Myint Swe (acting) State Administration Council Chairman: Min Aung Hlaing Vice Chairman: Soe Win Vice-President First: Myint Swe Second: Henry Van Thio Prime Minister (list) Min Aung Hlaing Deputy Prime Minister Soe Win Mya Tun Oo Tin Aung San Soe Htut Win Shein Cabinet Provisional Government Legislature (dissolved) House of Nationalities Speaker House of Representatives Speaker Opposition Judiciary Supreme Court Chief Justice: Htun Htun Oo Constitutional Tribunal Chairman: Than Kyaw Recent elections General: 2015 2020 Next Presidential: 2016 2018 Next Political parties Administrative divisions States, Regions and Union Territories Self-Administered Zones and Divisions Districts Townships Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs Minister: Wunna Maung Lwin Ministry of International Cooperation Minister: Ko Ko Hlaing Diplomatic missions of / in Myanmar Passport Visa requirements Visa policy Exiled government Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw National Unity Government President: Duwa Lashi La (acting) Prime Minister: Mahn Win Khaing Than Vice President: Duwa Lashi La Related topics Human rights National Human Rights Commission Naming issues Myanmar portal Other countries v t e You may need rendering support to display the Burmese script in this article correctly. The country known in English as Burma, or Myanmar, has undergone changes in both its official and popular names worldwide. The choice of names stems from the existence of two different names for the country in Burmese, which are used in different contexts. The official English name Burma (Burmese: ဗမာ) was an old name used by Myanmar Country, yet later was changed by Burma's government from the "Union of Burma" to the "Republic of the Union of Myanmar". Since then, those name changes have been the subject of controversies and mixed incidences of adoption. Burmese names[edit] In the Burmese language, Burma is known as Myanmar Pyi (Burmese: မြန်မာပြည်). Myanmar Pyi is the written, literary name of the country, while Bama is the spoken name of the country.[1] Burmese, like Javanese and other languages of Southeast Asia, has different levels of register, with sharp differences between literary and spoken language.[2] Both names derive ultimately from the endonym of the largest ethnic group in Burma, the Burmans, also known as Bama or Mranma in the spoken register and in the literary register, respectively. As such, some groups—particularly non-Burmans minorities—consider these names to be exclusionary. "Bama"[edit] The colloquial name Bama is supposed to have originated from the name Myanma by shortening of the first syllable, from loss of nasal final "an" (/-àɴ/), reduced to non-nasal "a" (/-à/), and loss of "y" (/-j-/) glide), and then by transformation of "m" into "b". This sound change from "m" to "b" is frequent in colloquial Burmese[citation needed] and occurs in many other words.[1][3] Although Bama may be a later transformation of the name Myanma, both names have been in use alongside each other for centuries.[citation needed] King Mindon in the mid-19th century was the first to refer to himself as the king of the 'Mranma people', in an attempt to ethnicise his rule, at a time when his rule was largely confined to the Irrawaddy Valley and the Myanmar ethnic group.[4] In 1930s, Ba Thaung, founder of the Dobama Asiayone (We Burmans Association), referred to the country as 'Bamapran' (ဗမာပြည်). He felt that the pronunciation of Mranma is "weak" and that of Bama is "strong". He also added that Bama refers to, not only the Mranma ethnic group, but all ethnic groups present in the country.[5] "Mranma"[edit] The etymology of Mranma remains unclear.[6] The "Burmans" who entered the central Irrawaddy river valley in the 9th century founded the Pagan Kingdom in 849,[7] and called themselves Mranma.[8] The earliest record discovered of the word was in a Mon inscription dated 1102, inside which the name was spelled Mirma. The first record of the name in a Burmese inscription is dated 1190, in which inscription the name was spelled Myanma.[6] Ma Thanegi records that the first use of the name 'Mranma' for the country is to be found on a 3 feet (91 cm) high stone inscription dated 597 ME (Traditional Burmese calendar) or 1235 CE. The stone is from the reign of Kyaswa, (1234-1250) son of King Htilominlo (Nadaungmya), Bagan. It is written in early Burmese script. Although the middle of the front side of this stone is damaged, the first line of the better-protected reverse side clearly shows မြန်မာပြည် ("Mranma kingdom"). The inscription is known as the 'Yadana Kon Htan Inscription'. At present it is in Bagan recorded as stone number 43 in the Archaeological Department's collection.[9] Today in Burmese the name is still spelled Mranma, but over time the "r" sound disappeared in most dialects of the Burmese language and was replaced by a "y" glide, so although the name is spelled "Mranma", it is actually pronounced Myanma. In the decades preceding independence, independence parties were in search of a name for the new country to be born, which would be made up not only of Burmese-speaking people, but also of many minorities. In the 1920s, some favoured the name Mranma, which had been the name applied to the old Burmese kingdom conquered by the British Empire in the 19th century. In the 1930s, the left-wing independence parties favoured the name Bama, as they thought this name was more inclusive of minorities than Mranma.[citation needed] The Burmese puppet state set up by the Japanese occupation forces during the Second World War was officially called Bama. When the Japanese used their own syllabary, they transliterated the three consonants of the Dutch name "Birma" and ended up with the name Biruma (ビルマ). At the time of independence in 1948, the "Union of Burma" was the name that was chosen for the new country, being further amended as the "Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma" in 1974, following a 1962 military coup. While both the names Bama and Mranma historically referred only to the Burmans and not other ethnic minorities, Burmese governments in the post-independence period have instituted a differentiation of meaning between Mranma and Bama in the official Burmese language usage. The name Myanma/Myanmar was expanded to include all citizens of the country while the name Bama was kept to its original meaning. Both are widespread use in colloquial usage. Most still use Bama/Myanma interchangeably, to refer to the country, depending on the context. Ironically, because of the official renaming of the country, the dominant ethnic group is now known by its colloquial name, Bama, rather than by its literary name, Mranma in official Burmese usage.[2] English names[edit] History[edit] In English, the official name chosen for the country at the time of independence was "Burma". This was already the name that the British called their colony before 1948. This name most likely comes from Portuguese Birmânia[citation needed] and was adopted by English in the 18th century. The Portuguese name itself, a Latinate back-formation (cp. Germânia vs. Alemanha), came from the Indian name Barma which was borrowed by the Portuguese from any of the Indian languages in the 16th or 17th century. This Indian name Barma may derive from colloquial Burmese Bama, but it may also derive from the Indian name Brahma-desh. Early usage of the English term Burma varies: Bermah (Earliest European maps as old as the 18th century spelled Burma with an 'e'.) Birmah (Charles Thomson map of 1827) Brama (Thomas Kitchin's map of 1787) Burmah (Samuel Dunn's map 1787) Burma (Keith Johnson's map 1803) Burmah (Eugene William's map, 1883) Burma (Common stable spelling used in The Times newspaper.) In 1989, the military regime of Burma set up a commission in charge of reviewing the place names of Burma in the English language. The aim of the commission was to correct the spelling of the place names of Burma in English, to discard spellings chosen by British colonial authorities in the 19th century, and adopt spellings closer to the actual Burmese pronunciation (compare with what happened in India with Calcutta/Kolkata and Calicut/Kozhikode). These renamings took the form of the "Adaptation of Expressions Law", passed on 18 June 1989. Thus, for instance, Rangoon was changed to Yangon to reflect the fact that the "r" sound is no longer used in Standard Burmese and merged with a "y" glide.[10] As for the country's name, the commission decided to replace the English name "Burma" with "Myanmar", for three reasons. First, Myanma is the official name of the country in the Burmese language, and the aim of the commission was to have English place names aligned with Burmese place names and pronunciation. Second, the commission thought that the name Myanma was more inclusive of minorities than the name Bama, and wanted the English name of the country to reflect this. Finally, the military regime has long been suspicious[citation needed] of the colloquial Burmese language, which it perceives as subversive; the English name "Burma" mirrors the colloquial Burmese name Bama. The final "r" in the English "Myanmar" is absent in Burmese Myanma (much as the medial "r" in "Burma" is absent in standard Burmese Bama). The commission added a final "r" in English to represent the low tone of Burmese, in which the word Myanma is pronounced. In the low tone, the final vowel "a" is lengthened. The commission was influenced by Received Pronunciation and other non-rhotic English English dialects, in which "ar" (without a following vowel) is also pronounced as long "a" (often given as "ah" in American English). However, in variants of English in which final "r" is pronounced, such as standard American English, add contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Name_of_Myanmar responseCode 3 200 