emvasigolsnqzgcqbcocugtaworqicveqovsbanm length 5 84246 page 5375 Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcut H:CEN Readers' FAQ About Wikipedia Administration FAQs Assessing article quality Authority control Books Categories Censorship Copyright Disambiguation Images and multimedia ISBN Microformats Mobile access Offline access Navigation Other languages Page names Portals Searching Student help Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Readers' glossary Readers' index Reader's guide to Wikipedia v t e Wikipedia is generally not censored by the editors but there may be censorship of some or all of Wikipedia content by individual governments. The editors of Wikipedia decide by community consensus as to what content is added. The only censorship by the community of note is the decision to blacklist certain images and restrict the visibility of various articles. Depictions of Muhammad, which cause offence to some Muslims, have not been censored. A number of methods can be used to prevent a computer from showing images contained in Wikipedia. If you wish to do this, see the options at Help:Options to hide an image. Circumventing external censorship[edit] Wikipedia supports https for all pages. Sometimes this can interfere with page blocking or reduce the risk of repercussions. Some possible ways to circumvent censorship by outside forces according to page name: Copy the location of the blocked Wikipedia page into Google Translate Transclude the page name into an arbitrary page that you preview. WP:Sandbox may be a good page to use, assuming it is not blocked. (Do not save these transclusions or other test edits, except in a Sandbox.) It might be safest to preview in a location that you do not normally read, in case the censor begins blocking that page. Example: enter {{:Nazi Party}} into a page to preview. Note: If your IP address has been placed under a "schoolblock" from the Wikipedia end, you will not be able to preview most pages; instead, try hitting the "talk" option beside your IP address. You may have access to edit (and thus to preview) that one page. Some possible ways to circumvent censorship targeting pages containing specific named images: Help:Options to hide an image Use or write a Lua module to deliver content with some or all images removed, e.g. {{#invoke:Page|getContent|Nazi Party|nowiki=yes}} These methods do not protect users who may be subject to threats to their employment or freedom for viewing certain types of content. For them, a very careful exploration of HTTP tunnels, virtual private networks, The Onion Router protocol, or "sneakernet" may or may not be appropriate. See also[edit] Censorship, the encyclopedia article about the topic Censorship of Wikipedia, an article about the history of Wikipedia censorship by different countries. v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Censorship responseCode 3 200 