emvsycngnicshaagiopkpkdqlqmgemjckiwcfezo length 6 146500 page 10173 Burmese junta chief Chairman of the State Administration Council နိုင်ငံတော်စီမံအုပ်ချုပ်ရေးကောင်စီဥက္ကဋ္ဌ State Seal of Myanmar Incumbent Min Aung Hlaing since 2 February 2021 State Administration Council Type Military junta leader Abbreviation SAC Chairman Reports to Commander-in-Chief of Defence Services Residence Presidential Palace[1] Seat Naypyidaw Appointer Commander-in-Chief of Defence Services[2] exercising emergency powers Term length Concurrent with the state of emergency Constituting instrument CinCDS Order No (9/2021)[2] Precursor State Counsellor Formation 2 February 2021 (2021-02-02) First holder Min Aung Hlaing Deputy Vice Chairman Politics of Myanmar Constitution 2008 Constitution Constitutional Tribunal Chairman: Than Kyaw National Defence and Security Council Government President (list) Myint Swe (acting) State Administration Council Chairman: Min Aung Hlaing Vice Chairman: Soe Win Vice-President First: Myint Swe Second: Henry Van Thio Prime Minister (list) Min Aung Hlaing Deputy Prime Minister Soe Win Mya Tun Oo Tin Aung San Soe Htut Win Shein Cabinet Provisional Government Legislature (dissolved) House of Nationalities Speaker House of Representatives Speaker Opposition Judiciary Supreme Court Chief Justice: Htun Htun Oo Constitutional Tribunal Chairman: Than Kyaw Recent elections General: 2015 2020 Next Presidential: 2016 2018 Next Political parties Administrative divisions States, Regions and Union Territories Self-Administered Zones and Divisions Districts Townships Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs Minister: Wunna Maung Lwin Ministry of International Cooperation Minister: Ko Ko Hlaing Diplomatic missions of / in Myanmar Passport Visa requirements Visa policy Exiled government Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw National Unity Government President: Duwa Lashi La (acting) Prime Minister: Mahn Win Khaing Than Vice President: Duwa Lashi La Related topics Human rights National Human Rights Commission Naming issues Myanmar portal Other countries v t e The chairman of the State Administration Council (Burmese: နိုင်ငံတော်စီမံအုပ်ချုပ်ရေးကောင်စီဥက္ကဋ္ဌ) is the head of Myanmar's ruling military junta, established in the 2021 coup d'état. Min Aung Hlaing is the current holder of the office, and also serves as the prime minister of the Provisional Government.[3][4][5][6] Background[edit] On 1 February 2021, the military of Myanmar launched a coup on the democratically elected members of Myanmar's ruling party, the National League for Democracy.[7] The leader of the coup, Min Aung Hlaing, became the de facto leader of the state after the coup.[8] A day after the coup, Min Aung Hlaing formalized his leadership by forming the State Administration Council, in which he assumed office as the chairman.[9] Powers[edit] As Min Aung Hlaing concurrently held office as the commander-in-chief of the Myanmar Armed Forces, he has the right to exercise legislative, judicative, and executive powers. His chairman office exercises his legislative power.[9] Chairman[edit] Portrait Name (birth–death) Term of office Deputy(s) Took office Left office Time in office Min Aung Hlaing (born 1956) 2 February 2021 Incumbent 2 years, 291 days Soe Win Vice Chairman[edit] Vice Chairman of the State Administration Council State Seal of Myanmar Incumbent Soe Win since 2 February 2021 State Administration Council Type Military junta deputy leader Abbreviation SAC Vice Chairman Reports to Chairman Seat Naypyidaw Appointer Commander-in-Chief of Defence Services[2] exercising emergency powers Term length Concurrent with the state of emergency Constituting instrument CinCDS Order No (9/2021)[2] Formation 2 February 2021 First holder Soe Win The vice chairman of the State Administration Council is the junta's second-ranked official. Portrait Name (birth–death) Term of office Chairman Took office Left office Time in office Soe Win (born 1961) 2 February 2021 Incumbent 2 years, 291 days Min Aung Hlaing See also[edit] Politics of Myanmar President of Myanmar Vice President of Myanmar Prime Minister of Myanmar State Counsellor of Myanmar Ministry of State Counsellor’s Office Supreme leader Council of State References[edit] ^ "Min Aung Hlaing's Mania for the Presidency Is Alive and Well—and May Soon Bear Fruit". The Irrawaddy. 6 January 2023. Retrieved 12 January 2023. Right after the coup, [Min Aung Hlaing] moved straight into the Presidential Residence. ^ a b c d "Order No (9/2021), Office of the Commander-in-Chief of Defence Services, Republic of the Union of Myanmar" (PDF). The Global New Light of Myanmar. 3 February 2021. p. 3. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 April 2021. Retrieved 20 April 2021. ^ "Myanmar army ruler takes prime minister role, again pledges elections". Reuters. 1 August 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2021. ^ "Sixth coordination meeting on COVID-19 prevention, control and treatment held; Chairman of State Administration Council Prime Minister of Caretaker Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Senior General Min Aung Hlaing delivers address". 2 August 2021. ^ "State Administration Council Chairman Prime Minister Senior General Min Aung Hlaing addresses Council meeting 13/2021". 8 August 2021. ^ "SAC Chairman Prime Minister of the Provisional Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Senior General Min Aung Hlaing delivers". 11 August 2021. ^ "Myanmar military seizes power, detains elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi". news.trust.org. Reuters. 1 February 2021. ^ "Myanmar coup: Aung San Suu Kyi detained as military seizes control". BBC News. 1 February 2021. Retrieved 3 February 2021. ^ a b "Myanmar military announces new State Administration Council". The Myanmar Times. 2 February 2021. Retrieved 3 February 2021. v t e Government of Myanmar Constitution of Myanmar Gazette of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Executive In government President list President's Office Vice President State Counsellor Cabinet State Administration Council Chairman Naypyidaw Council Chief Ministers In exile National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma National Unity Government Legislative In government Assembly of the Union Speaker House of Nationalities Speaker House of Representatives Speaker State and Region Hluttaws In exile Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw Judiciary Constitutional Tribunal Supreme Court Revenue Appellate Tribunal Ministries Existing Agriculture, Livestock, and Irrigation Border Affairs Commerce Construction Cooperatives and Rural Development Defence Education Electricity and Energy Ethnic Affairs Foreign Affairs Health Home Affairs Hotels and Tourism Immigration and Population Industry Information International Cooperation Investment and Foreign Economic Relations Labour Legal Affairs Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation Planning and Finance Religious Affairs and Culture Science and Technology Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement Sports and Youth Affairs Transport and Communications Union Government Office (1), Union Government Office (2) Defunct Agriculture and Irrigation Communications and Information Technology Cooperatives Electric Power Energy Environmental Conservation and Forestry Health and Sports Labour, Employment and Social Security Labour, Immigration and Population Livestock, Fisheries and Rural Development Mines National Planning and Economic Development Planning and Finance Rail Transportation State Counsellor Office Transport Constitutional bodies Offices Auditor General Attorney General Meeting bodies National Defence and Security Council Financial Commission Union Civil Service Board Commissions Union Election Commission Anti-Corruption Commission National Human Rights Commission Myanmar Investment Commission Securities and Exchange Commission Law enforcement Myanmar Police Force State-owned entities Central Bank Myanma Economic Bank Myanma Foreign Trade Bank Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank Myanma Agricultural Development Bank Myanmar portal WikiProject Commons Category v t e Leaders of Southeast Asian countries Heads of state Brunei (Monarch) Cambodia (Monarch) East Timor (President) Indonesia (President) (list) Laos (President) Malaysia (Monarch) Myanmar (President) (list) Philippines (President) (list) Singapore (President) Thailand (Monarch) (list) Vietnam (President) (list) Heads of government Brunei Cambodia (list) East Timor Indonesia (list) Laos Malaysia Myanmar (list) Philippines (list) Singapore Thailand (list) Vietnam (list) Supreme leaders Laos Myanmar Vietnam Defunct heads of state and government Burma (Monarch) Dutch East Indies (Governor-General) Indonesia (Prime Minister) Laos (Monarch) Myanmar (State Counsellor) Philippines (Governor-General) (Prime Minister) South Vietnam (leaders) ASEAN v t e Heads of state and government of Asia Heads of state UN members and observers Afghanistan Armenia1 Azerbaijan1 Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Cambodia China Cyprus East Timor Egypt2 Georgia1 India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Myanmar Nepal North Korea Oman Pakistan Palestine Philippines Qatar Russia1 Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka South Korea Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen limited recognized states Abkhazia1 Artsakh1 Northern Cyprus1 South Ossetia1 Taiwan Heads of government UN members and observers Afghanistan Armenia1 Azerbaijan1 Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Cambodia China Cyprus East Timor Egypt2 Georgia1 India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Myanmar Nepal North Korea Oman Pakistan Palestine Philippines Qatar Russia1 Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka South Korea Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen limited recognized states Abkhazia1 Artsakh1 Northern Cyprus1 South Ossetia1 Taiwan Supreme leaders Afghanistan China Iran Laos Myanmar North Korea T contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 78 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Chairman_of_the_State_Administration_Council responseCode 3 200 