eoagcqccxkdqsihidgpkfspkusnmqiriccxktmqk length 6 396600 page 10130 Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Chat Meetups Directories (Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects) Shortcuts WP:EDIR WP:ESSAYDIR WP:ESSAYLIST This is a descriptive directory of Wikipedia essays and related information pages located in the Wikipedia namespace. There are currently around 2,163 essays, with over two dozen categories to separate them for searching. You can also search essays by: A Special:Search, just include the words "Wikipedia essays" (with your other search-words) to hunt a topic inside an essay (note search may result with many non-essays). Essays in a nutshell, for a quick summary of some essays, as sorted by topic. (slightly outdated) Browse Category:Wikipedia essays. There is also the essay navigation template located at the bottom of many essays. For other useful directories and indexes, see Wikipedia:Directories and indexes. Essays and information pages represent the opinion(s) or summaries of an individual or group of editors and are intended to supplement or clarify a process while sometimes offering advice. Essays and information pages are not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, thus have no official status within the community. Following the instructions or guidance given in an essay or information page is optional, as they may be written and edited by anyone without overall community oversight. List of Wikipedia essays[edit] About essays[edit] About essays – what essays are, the types of essays and status within the community. Avoid writing redundant essays – why it is a good idea to check if similar essays already exist before creating new ones. Difference between policies, guidelines and essays – what the community chooses to call a "policy" or a "guideline" or an "essay". Don't cite essays as if they were policy – we don't use essays or proposals as if they were guidelines or policy. Essay writing guide – how to create and edit essays. Quote your own essay – how editors may refer to essays, provided that they do not hold them out as general consensus or policy. Value of essays – how essays are not policies or guidelines. However, many are worthy of consideration. About Wikipedia[edit] About Wikipedia – a general introduction for visitors to Wikipedia. Administration – discuses both the non-human administrative structure of Wikipedia, as well as its human components. Academic use – how citation of Wikipedia in research papers may be considered unacceptable, because Wikipedia is not considered a credible or authoritative source. Editing environment – how is Wikipedia governed? What happens when content disputes 'boil over' into accusations of bad conduct? Editorial oversight and control – the various processes and structures by which Wikipedia articles and their editing are editorially controlled, and the processes which are built into that model to ensure quality of article content. Evaluating Wikipedia as an encyclopedia – Wikipedia's success or failure as an encyclopedia, using the standard accepted criteria for all encyclopedias. Five pillars – the fundamental principles of Wikipedia Formal organization – who does what on Wikipedia? What does Wikipedia itself say about its own formal organizational structure? Gender bias and editing on Wikipedia – the gender gap that exists on Wikipedia, in terms of editors and editing practice. Processes – the technical, methodical, and semi-formal means of accomplishing goals and resolving disputes. Product, process, policy – how process and policy are generated in order to improve Wikipedia. Purpose – Wikipedia's motive for being. Quality control – how the very wiki-nature of Wikipedia enables instant and continuous quality control, by allowing anyone and everyone to participate in improving articles and the encyclopedia as a whole. Replies to common objections – answers a number of common criticisms of the Wikipedia project as outlined in publications (see WP:Criticisms for a list of quotations from critics). Researching with Wikipedia – Wikipedia can be a great tool for learning and researching information. However, as with all reference works, not everything in Wikipedia is accurate, comprehensive, or unbiased. Role of Jimmy Wales – Jimmy Wales holds a special role in the governance of the English Wikipedia, because of the central and vital stake he had in its founding. Sexual content – Wikipedia contains sexual content. The essence of Wikipedia – how Wikipedia is the harnessing of the collective intelligence and collaborative efforts of editors who hold opposing points of view, in an attempt to preserve all serious contributions which are reliably sourced. The aim is the progressive building of more and better NPOV content. The role of policies in collaborative anarchy – how policies produce a quality encyclopedia. The rules are principles – how policies and guidelines exist only as rough approximations of their underlying principles. Trifecta – the three founding principles of our policies and guidelines. Why Wikipedia is so great – what accounts for Wikipedia's enormous growth and success. Why Wikipedia is not so great – the drawbacks of Wikipedia. Who writes Wikipedia? – anyone (EVEN YOU!) can edit existing articles or create new ones, and volunteers do not need to have any formal training to contribute. Wikipedia may or may not be failing – what is going on? And why should we care? Wikipedia in brief – the very basic principles of contributing. Wikipedia is a mainstream encyclopedia – how what is considered "mainstream" for Wikipedia may be the minority view in society. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia – some norms of the Wikipedia community. Wikipedia is a community – how there is nothing wrong with occasionally doing other things than writing the encyclopedia, and that community spirit is a positive thing. Wikipedia is failing – ways in which Wikipedia is not fulfilling its aims. Wikipedia is a tertiary source – how Wikipedia is an encyclopedia and as such, Wikipedia is a tertiary source. Wikipedia is a work in progress – Wikipedia is constantly being improved and expanded, and it will never be finished. Wikipedia is succeeding – presents arguments to show that the Wikipedia is succeeding in the goal of becoming a reputable and reliable encyclopedia. You don't own Wikipedia – the Wikimedia Foundation outranks the community. User:Jimbo Wales/Statement of principles – statement of principles! by the co-founder of Wikipedia, Jimmy Wales, as updated by the community since then. Back to contents Privacy and security[edit] Advice for parents – offers a brief introduction to Wikipedia for parents and legal guardians. Guidance for younger editors – advice for young editors about what they should be aware of. How to not get outed on Wikipedia – for some editors of Wikipedia, having their "real life" identity discovered can be a major problem, threatening their well-being, careers, or even personal safety. There are a variety of steps you can take to help protect yourself from this happening. IP edits are not anonymous – editing Wikipedia with an IP address as your identifier is often less anonymous than editing with a normal account. On privacy, confidentiality and discretion – everyone should be careful about revealing and handling personal and/or private information, as your rights to privacy may not extend as far as you believe. Personal security practices – intended as a guideline for user security concerns and practices on Wikipedia. It adapts some information from the Wikimedia foundation's privacy policy to address some personal security concerns that may arise in the course of editing Wikipedia. Protecting children's privacy – all users, including children, are permitted to edit anonymously without submitting identifying information. Reasonable efforts to discourage children from disclosing identifying personal information are appropriate. Responding to threats of harm – anyone who observes potentially suicidal or violent behavior should notify Wikipedia administrators quickly. (Editors may not provide counselling services or professional referrals). User account security – editors should use a strong password to avoid being blocked for bad edits by someone who guesses or "cracks" other editors' passwords. Why create an account – you don't need to be registered to edit; however it does provide additional features and privacy. Wikipedia is a volunteer service – editors on Wikipedia are mainly volunteers. Editors can contribute as much as they want, and for however long they desire. Wikipedia is anonymous – Wikipedia can be anonymous. Still, there are various ways your identity can be revealed. Wikipedia is in the real world – your activity here has real consequences, because Wikipedia is in the real world. Back to contents About editors[edit] Competence is required – not every person belongs on Wikipedia, because some people are not sufficiently competent. Disruptive user – examples of what would make someone a disruptive user. Editorial discretion – common sense and Wikipedia policy dictate that editors must practice discretion regarding the proper inclusion of relevant and well-sourced content. Editor integrity – editors have a responsibility to uphold the integrity of Wikipedia and respect intellectual property rights of the sources they draw upon when they create and improve encyclopedia pages. Editors matter – Wikipedia's most important resource is its contributors. Editors will sometimes be wrong – individual editors, and even groups of editors, are sometimes wrong. Expert editors – expert editors are important to Wikipedia. Ghostwriting – organizations and individuals bypassing the conflict-of-interest guideline by supplying approved drafts of articles about themselves. Here to build an encyclopedia – the distinguish constructive and non-constructive behaviour of editors. Honor system – how editors are trusted to obey all the rules and do the right thing. There contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Essay_directory responseCode 3 200 