eopomggixeymparedczmqetgrctgrkogiaesicoa page 5370 This is not the page to ask for help or test edits. This page is for discussion of the Your first article page itself. For other help, please go here: Get help at the Teahouse To make test edits, please use the Sandbox. For other help, please see our main help page. This is the talk page for discussing improvements to the Your first article page. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit; get help. Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Archives: 1, 2, 3 Auto-archiving period: 180 days Daily pageviews of Help:Your first article A graph should have been displayed here but graphs are temporarily disabled. Until they are enabled again, visit the interactive graph at pageviews.wmcloud.org Wikipedia Help B‑class Top‑importance This page is within the scope of the Wikipedia Help Project, a collaborative effort to improve Wikipedia's help documentation for readers and contributors. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. To browse help related resources see the Help Menu or Help Directory. Or ask for help on your talk page and a volunteer will visit you there.Wikipedia HelpWikipedia:Help ProjectTemplate:Wikipedia Help ProjectHelp articles B This page does not require a rating on the project's quality scale. Top This page has been rated as Top-importance on the project's importance scale. Things to avoid In 2019, the consensus resolved that all active porn actors will be gradually eliminated from Wikipedia. If you create such an article, it would be speedy deleted claiming insufficient notability. The above was reverted: The consensus resolved no such thing. Porn actors can have articles if they satisfy notability. Did any one satisfy since 2019? What is the difference between resolving such thing and creation of impossible notability threshold?--Maxaxa (talk) 22:27, 28 January 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Major overhaul of this page Hello! For the past little while a bunch of people have been working on a draft of an update to this page. Please take a look/suggest improvements/leave feedback/etc. at your convenience. Thank you so much, HouseBlastertalk 00:01, 18 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @HouseBlaster I would suggest using less "hand-holding" language and more "how this should be done" language (like in documentations for programming languages). This respects the competence of the reader and improve their perception of our competence as well. Also, it is helpful to give a more detailed explanation on the reasons why we have these criteria in the first place. CactiStaccingCrane (talk) 15:33, 18 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Welp: Your forked article Seems two teams have been labouring in ignorance of one another, and now the RfC is closed. We've got H:YFA on the one hand, and User:Houseblaster/YFA draft on the other. Last synced 1 July, after I made the same mistake. So, stet, merge, overwrite? Notifying editors who have touched either page during July: @Mathglot, Tenryuu, Houseblaster, Rich Smith, S0091, Slgrandson, WhatamIdoing, Hyphenation expert, Lettherebedarklight, CopperyMarrow15, Ganguma, CactiStaccingCrane, Ianmacm, Edward-Woodrow, Paine Ellsworth, OutsideNormality, and Zinnober9: Apologies to all involved for the notification. Folly Mox (talk) 03:21, 28 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] No merge, the draft at User:Houseblaster/YFA draft has a completely different logic. Choose one or the other, and go from there, following the logic of the chosen design. Mathglot (talk) 05:13, 28 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Hmm no response either 🙃 User:CactiStaccingCrane, you expressed doubt about the new draft in the section immediately prior, so repinging you individually, but this question is directed at everyone. How do people feel about a round robin move? Move the current help page to Help:Article creation basics or Help:Article creation fundamentals or something, and move User:Houseblaster/YFA draft to this title? That way we keep the thorough explanation for people who want something in between "I've never logged in before today but I'm tryna create an article first thing" and "here's Category:Wikipedia policies and guidelines; good luck!", but also provide a thing for the day zero raw newcomers. Folly Mox (talk) 04:25, 4 August 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Yeah, I was kinda surprised about the crickets, too. Honestly, I think this draft beats the hell out of the existing YFA, and I would certainly support such a move, but probably we need a more central venue to publish or advertise it in . You could start... I was gonna say, you could start an RM (Requested Move), but that usually implies only a title change with no major change of content, and this isn't that at all. So, maybe an Rfc? Mathglot (talk) 04:38, 4 August 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Sorry! I got the ping but had other messages as well and forgot about this one. What do you think about posting something at WP:Village pump (proposals) first to request input/feedback along with WT:Teahouse? Given its importance, I would rather it go through some more vetting before a formal RfC. Also Cullen328 just posted some suggestions at User talk:Houseblaster/YFA draft. S0091 (talk) 15:04, 5 August 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help_talk:Your_first_article responseCode 3 200 