eqxisgrqvmssqgykyanqpclewigscgyacaqinmye page 2913 Images and media Overview of images Creation and usage of media files Upload an image to Commons (preferred) or to English Wikipedia. Find Finding images tutorial Requested pictures Graphics Lab Image copyright tags Help File description pages How to upload files to Wikipedia Images and other uploaded files Preparing images for upload Visual file markup How to insert and use pictures in Wikipedia articles Use the Extended image syntax to place an image in an article Sound file markup Graphics tutorials How to request images or media for deletion Category:Wikipedia image help Media copyright questions Policy and guidelines Image use policy Guide to captions Guide to use of logos Guide to use of alternative text for images Other Featured pictures Featured picture candidates Public domain image resources Wikipedia:Requesting copyright permission Wikipedia:Example requests for permission Wikipedia:Moving images to the Commons Category:Wikipedia images v t e Wikipedia help pages Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum. FAQs (?) Reference desks (?) Noticeboards (?) Cheatsheet (?) Directories (?) About Wikipedia (?) Administration Purpose Principles Policies and guidelines What Wikipedia is not Disclaimer (parental advice) Making requests Who writes Wikipedia? Help for readers (?) FAQ Books Copyright Glossary Mobile access Navigation Other languages Searching Students Viewing media Contributing to Wikipedia (?) Advice for young editors Avoiding common mistakes Etiquette Simplified Manual of Style Simplified rule-set "Ignore all rules" "The rules are principles" Style-tips Tip of the day Your first article (article wizard) Getting started (?) Why create an account? Introductions by topic Graphics tutorials Picture tutorial IRC (live chat) tutorial VisualEditor user guide Dos and don'ts (?) Accessibility Biographies Biographies (living) Categorization Consensus Discussions Disambiguation Images Leads Links Lists References Tables Titles (of articles) How-to pages and information pages (?) Appealing blocks Article deletion Categories Citations/references Referencing for beginners Citation Style 1 Cite errors References and page numbers Convert Diff Editing Minor edit toolbar edit conflict Find sources Files Footnotes Image deletion Infoboxes Linking (link color) Logging in Merging Page name Renaming pages Redirect Passwords Email confirmation Reverting Simple vandalism cleanup Talk pages (archiving simple archiving) User contributions WP search protocol Coding (?) Wiki markup Barcharts Calculations Characters Columns Elevation Hidden text HTML Lists Magic words Music symbols Sections Sounds Tables Templates Transclusion URL Visual files Directories (?) Abbreviations Contents (Encyclopedia proper) Departments Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Guidelines Manual of Style Policies Tasks Tips Tools Missing Manual Ask for help on your talk page (?) contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Menu/Images_and_media responseCode 3 200 