fccevqeelcqeceoijkmowkkocqxosibozalkcqqi page 4530 The Wikipedia community The Community Portal Wikipedia department directory Wikipedia quick directory Community support[edit] Teahouse - peer support for new editors Harmonious editing club - keep the peace, peacefully Kindness Campaign - spread kindness and recognition of users Adopt-a-User - experienced editors can "adopt" newer editors, helping to mentor them along the way as they learn about Wikipedia Welcoming committee Editor assistance User pages How to report a bug Mailing lists In-person meetings Wikipedians Local Embassy – find a user that speaks your language Babel – Another way to find multi-lingual Wikipedians Surveys Expressing thanks Voting and consensus[edit] Feedback by editors, to editors. Featuring an article Featuring lists Featuring pictures Featuring sounds Featuring portals Featuring topics Good articles Peer review Administrator nominations Discussing[edit] Deleting pages Deleting articles (full policy) Deleting categories (or a stub type) Deleting templates Deleting files Moving/Merging a page (and how to actually do it) Protecting pages (full policy) Resolving disputes[edit] Stay cool! Be nice to newcomers Alert others Dispute resolution Arbitration policy Keeping informed: News[edit] Community Portal – Bulletin board collaborations and updates – Wikipedia's hub of activity. The Signpost – Wikipedia's newspaper Wikipedia in the media Wikipedia milestone announcements Wikizine – news letter about the Wikimedia projects Press releases Stats Milestones Regional notice boards Goings-on Dashboard Administrators[edit] Administrator nominations List of administrators Administration FAQ Administrator's reading list Bureaucrats Elections Meta Fix cut & paste moves Page protection Wikipedian culture[edit] Wikipedians: the people who contribute to Wikipedia List of Wikipedians WikiProjects: where people interested in specific topics work together List of WikiProjects WikiProjects category Collaborations: Wikipedians focusing on one article for a set amount of time List of collaborations Wikipedia essays User essays Wikipedian humor Bad jokes and other deleted nonsense Department of Fun Wikipediholism Unusual articles Editcountitis: a condition that can be fatal Wikipedian games Barnstars Awards programs More about Wikipedia[edit] Overview of Wikipedia (All about Wikipedia) Category:Wikipedia Category-based access to pages about Wikipedia Another way to browse help topics Category:Wikipedia how-to (a full list of help topics) The wider community[edit] Meta – The site that organizes all Wikimedia projects. v t e Wikipedia help pages Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum. FAQs (?) Reference desks (?) Noticeboards (?) Cheatsheet (?) Directories (?) About Wikipedia (?) Administration Purpose Principles Policies and guidelines What Wikipedia is not Disclaimer (parental advice) Making requests Who writes Wikipedia? Help for readers (?) FAQ Books Copyright Glossary Mobile access Navigation Other languages Searching Students Viewing media Contributing to Wikipedia (?) Advice for young editors Avoiding common mistakes Etiquette Simplified Manual of Style Simplified rule-set "Ignore all rules" "The rules are principles" Style-tips Tip of the day Your first article (article wizard) Getting started (?) Why create an account? Introductions by topic Graphics tutorials Picture tutorial IRC (live chat) tutorial VisualEditor user guide Dos and don'ts (?) Accessibility Biographies Biographies (living) Categorization Consensus Discussions Disambiguation Images Leads Links Lists References Tables Titles (of articles) How-to pages and information pages (?) Appealing blocks Article deletion Categories Citations/references Referencing for beginners Citation Style 1 Cite errors References and page numbers Convert Diff Editing Minor edit toolbar edit conflict Find sources Files Footnotes Image deletion Infoboxes Linking (link color) Logging in Merging Page name Renaming pages Redirect Passwords Email confirmation Reverting Simple vandalism cleanup Talk pages (archiving simple archiving) User contributions WP search protocol Coding (?) Wiki markup Barcharts Calculations Characters Columns Elevation Hidden text HTML Lists Magic words Music symbols Sections Sounds Tables Templates Transclusion URL Visual files Directories (?) Abbreviations Contents (Encyclopedia proper) Departments Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Guidelines Manual of Style Policies Tasks Tips Tools Missing Manual Ask for help on your talk page (?) contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 67 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Menu/The_Wikipedia_community responseCode 3 200 