feiibkgioqpkhefqdoiirausyaemkojgdgcehkga page 10059 Medieval castle in Powys, Wales Cefnllys Castle Castell Cefn-llys Powys, Wales Near Llandrindod Wells Castle Bank from the north Cefnllys Castle Coordinates 52°14′38″N 3°20′07″W﻿ / ﻿52.2438°N 3.3353°W﻿ / 52.2438; -3.3353 Type Spur castle Height 304 metres (997 ft) above sea level Site information Open to the public Yes Condition Ruined Site history Built c. 1093–95 (motte-and-bailey castle) c. 1242 (first masonry castle) 1273–74 (second masonry castle) Battles/wars Norman invasion of Wales (1067–1100s) Anglo-Welsh war (1256–67) Revolt of Madog ap Llywelyn (1294–95) Revolt of Owain Glyndŵr (1400–15) Scheduled monument Official name Cefnllys Castle Old Castle Mound Cefnllys Medieval Settlement Reference no. RD008 RD077 RD150 Listed Building – Grade II Official name Church of St Michael Designated 12 December 1952 Reference no. 9301 Cefnllys Castle (Welsh: Castell Cefn-llys, pronounced [ˈkastɛɬ kɛvn ɬɨːs]) was a medieval spur castle in Radnorshire (now part of Powys), Wales. Two successive masonry castles were built on a ridge above the River Ithon known as Castle Bank (Welsh: Craig y Castell, lit. 'castle rock') in the thirteenth century, replacing a wooden motte-and-bailey castle constructed by the Normans nearby. Controlling several communication routes into the highlands of Mid Wales, the castles were strategically important within the Welsh Marches during the High Middle Ages. As the seat of the fiercely contested lordship and cantref of Maelienydd, Cefnllys became a source of friction between Llywelyn ap Gruffudd and Roger Mortimer in the prelude to Edward I's conquest of Wales (1277–1283). Cefnllys was also the site of a borough and medieval town. Castle Bank is often considered to be the site of an Iron Age hillfort, but there is no firm evidence to corroborate this.[1] It has also been speculated that the princely court of a native Welsh ruler was situated nearby. The first castle at Cefnllys, 1 mile (1.6 km) north of the ridge, was a motte-and-bailey thrown up during the early stages of the Norman invasion of Wales by the Anglo-Norman baron Ralph Mortimer, beginning a long association between the powerful Mortimer family and Cefnllys. Around 1242, after a century of prolonged conflict in the region, Ralph Mortimer II built a masonry castle on the north-east flank of Castle Bank, which quickly became the principal symbol of Mortimer hegemony in Wales.[2] The castle was captured and slighted in 1262 by Llywelyn ap Gruffudd, Prince of Wales and Gwynedd, during a war with Henry III of England, and Cefnllys featured prominently in the ensuing Treaty of Montgomery. The construction of a new castle on the south-east side of the hill by Roger Mortimer was a contributing factor to Llywelyn's refusal to swear fealty to Edward I in 1275, leading to war in 1277. The castle may have been sacked during the revolts of Madog ap Llywelyn (1294–1295) and Owain Glyndŵr (1400–1415), but remained occupied until at least the mid-15th century, when it was described in a series of poems by the bard Lewys Glyn Cothi. Both castles on Castle Bank are now entirely ruinous and only traces remain; the sole surviving medieval structure at Cefnllys is St Michael's Church. The town was unsuccessful and disappeared altogether as a result of the Black Death and subsequent bubonic plague outbreaks, economic remoteness and changing frontier military conditions, although Cefnllys retained its borough status until the 19th century. Etymology[edit] Cefnllys derives from the Welsh words cefn, meaning 'ridge', and llys, meaning 'mansion' or 'court'. Llys is associated with the unfortified courts of medieval Welsh rulers and may refer to the administrative manor (maerdref) of a local lord.[3] The name is first mentioned in 1246 as Keventhles and the form Kevenlleece, standard in the 19th century, is recorded by 1679.[4][note 1] Another name for the settlement and parish, Llanfihangel Cefn-llys ("church of St Michael at Cefnllys"), appears in records c. 1566 and refers to the medieval church which still stands.[5] An older name, Dinieithon (also Dineithon and Castell Glan Iethon), meaning "fort on the River Ieithon" (din being Old Welsh for 'fort', cognate with dun), is also related to fortifications at Cefnllys – particularly the earlier Norman castle, which is sometimes called "Cefnllys Old Castle". Dinieithon or Swydd Diniethon ("shire of Dinieithon") was the name of the commote within the cantref (hundred) of Maelienydd.[5] Location[edit] The isolated ridge of Castle Bank is located 1.7 miles (2.7 km) east of the modern town of Llandrindod Wells, Powys. It occupies a key position at the junction of several tributary valleys of the River Ithon, granting commanding views over an important communication corridor into central Wales. Cefnllys was caput (administrative centre) of Maelienydd, part of the Welsh region of Rhwng Gwy a Hafren (English: Between Wye and Severn). As the English Marcher lords expanded their control westward, Maelienydd formed a core part of the turbulent area known as the middle march, together with Gwrtheyrnion and Elfael.[2] The castle was viewed as a forward defence against Welsh incursions by towns along the English border, particularly Hereford.[6] Description[edit] 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 Earlier (north-east) castle 1 Keep 2 Inner bailey 3 Outer bailey 4 Possible gatehouse Later (south-west) castle 5 Round tower 6 Square walled enclosure 7 Large rock-cut ditch 8 Possible south-west bailey 9 Possible north bailey Other features 10 Probable site of 15th century hall 11 Hollow-way entrance 12 Approaching path 13 Later cultivation Overview showing the earlier castle (centre-left) and later castle (top-right) The River Ithon near Cefnllys Castle Bank is a naturally defensible position, protected on three sides by a loop of the River Ithon. The hill is open access land,[7] and the highest point is 304 metres (997 ft) above sea level.[8] The mottes of two castles are situated at opposite ends of the hill, the ruins heavily deformed and mostly rubble; only their basic characteristics have been identified. The earlier northern castle consisted of a keep within an elevated triangular inner bailey, with an accompanying outer bailey which may been entered via a gatehouse at its north-east corner.[9][10] The main feature of the later southern castle was a circular (or octagonal) tower inside a walled court,[11][12][note 2] separated from the main part of the ridge by a deep rock-cut ditch.[9] There was probably a small bailey to the south-west, and a scarp across the main ridge suggests the southern half of Castle Bank may have formed a large north bailey. The outline of a building in this area is likely to be the oak hall recorded at Cefnllys in the 15th century.[15] A stone curtain wall and rampart extended along most of the hilltop rim.[16] St Michael's Church sits at the foot of the hill next to the Ithon, 300 metres (980 ft) to the west. Earthworks surrounding the church are commonly supposed to be the remains of the medieval town.[17][18] Alternatively, several historians infer that the primary settlement may have been sited within the enclosure of Castle Bank, adjacent to the castles.[19] During the borough's later history, the population may have been dispersed along the valley, instead of being focused in a nucleated settlement.[20] The Norman motte-and-bailey castle was located on the bank of the Ithon further upstream, 1 mile (1.6 km) north of Castle Bank.[3] History[edit] No archaeological excavation has been undertaken at Cefnllys – modern understanding of the site's history rests on contemporary texts.[21] Prior to the 14th century, sources are limited to accounts of military campaigns and the castles are referenced in the Welsh chronicles Brut y Tywysogion and Annales Cambriae. Greater stability following Edward I's conquest of Wales resulted in a growth of documentary evidence in the Welsh Marches, though at Cefnllys this is largely restricted to rudimentary public records as the majority of the Mortimer estate archives have been lost.[22] An extensive topographical survey combined with photogrammetry was carried out at Castle Bank in 1985 by the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales (RCAHMW), with a follow-up appraisal in 2006.[21] Hillfort origins[edit] A number of scholars have suggested that the medieval castles utilised the remains of an Iron Age hillfort. Indications of a pre-Roman provenance include the ridge's large, elongated enclosure of 10 hectares (25 acres),[23] interpretation of visible earthworks and the extensive use of scarping and ditching to artificially steepen the gradient of slopes surrounding the hilltop.[14] The archaeologist A. E. Brown tentatively linked the entrance hollow-way with this period,[17] and the banks encircling the hilltop could also have an Iron Age origin.[15] Other features previously posited as pre-Roman were determined to be medieval by the 2006 RCAHMW report, although it did not rule out the possibility of a hillfort.[1] The complexity of earthworks on Castle Bank is compounded by alterations caused by later agricultural use and quarrying,[14] making confident assessment difficult. Among recent archaeological studies, Chris Martin & Robert Silvester (2011) state that the large bailey's Iron Age origins have been "convincingly argued",[24] while Robert Scourfield & Richard Haslam (2013) surmise, on the basis of the RCAHMW report, that "the hill is no longer considered as having been first fortified in the Iron Age".[25] Initial medieval activity[edit] Cefnllys is connected in tradition with Elystan Glodrydd, a 10th-century prince of Buellt and founder of the regional Welsh dynasty.[24][note 3] The court of a Welsh ruler is assumed to have been sited nearby, but the time period, duration and precise location of such a llys are unresolved. In a Clwyd-Powys Archaeological Trust report for Cadw, Robert Silvester observed that the motte-and-b contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Cefnllys_Castle responseCode 3 200 