fgxmpmmsfkgolmykhcmgjcoajkhavckqbcnmrgbk page 6075 This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Venezuelan civil war of 1848–1849" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2022) (template removal help) This article may be a rough translation from Spanish. It may have been generated, in whole or in part, by a computer or by a translator without dual proficiency. Please help to enhance the translation. The original article is under "español" in the "languages" menu in the upper right corner. See this article's entry on Pages needing translation into English for discussion. (June 2022) Civil war in Venezuela Venezuelan civil war of 1848-1849 Part of the Venezuelan civil wars Date 1848-1849 Location Venezuela Result Monaguist victory Consolidation of the First Liberal Autocracy until the Revolution of 1859 Belligerents Conservative rebels Liberal Government Commanders and leaders José Antonio Páez José Tadeo Monagas The civil war of 1848-1849 was an armed conflict in Venezuela between the conservatives, led by José Antonio Páez, against the newly established Great Liberal Party, founded and led by José Tadeo Monagas. Background[edit] The precursors to this conflict go back to the Peasant Insurrection of 1846. After the defeat of this popular movement, led by the Liberal Party, José Tadeo Monagas was chosen as presidential candidate by the conservative party as a figure who could achieve reconciliation. Monagas triumphed in the election and assumed the presidency of the republic. Páez and the conservatives tried to control him, but he soon distanced himself from the conservatives and approached the liberals. The congress (dominated by the conservative party) tried to prosecute Monagas on charges of constitutional violations but this attempt failed after the congress was stormed by a liberal mob and silenced. Conflict[edit] Paez took up arms on 4 February 1848 in Calabozo, where he proclaimed himself chief of operations of the armies with the purpose to restore constitutional order. His military moved to Apure, where he took San Fernando de Apure. Monagas highlighted General Santiago Mariño against him, who sent a column of troops against Páez and defeated him on 10 March at the Battle of Los Araguatos. After this incident, Páez left the country.[1] Meanwhile, the fighting was concentrated in the west of the country, in Coro and Zulia. Páez invaded from La Vela de Coro in 1849 and pushed to Cojedes but when his rearguard was defeated in Casupo, he surrendered in Macapo Abajo before General José Laurencio Silva [es].[1] With the main leader of the conservative rebellion captured, the movement lost strength and ended almost entirely with the taking of Maracaibo by liberal troops. With the defeat of the conservative reaction, the First Liberal Autocracy was consolidated, which would last until the Revolution of 1859.[1] Naval blockade of Maracaibo[edit] On 17 August 1848, the schooners "Constitución" and "Restauración" appeared before Carúpano, commanded by Captain José Celis and loyal to the Páez conservative rebellion. After unsuccessfully attacking the plaza, the two conservative schooners withdrew, and sailed to Maracaibo, where a rebel squadron was gathering. Knowing this, the government ordered the concentration of naval forces in La Guaira, in order to organize a naval expedition against the conservative forces concentrated in Maracaibo. In October 1848, the National Squadron was organized in Puerto Cabello to confront the revolutionaries. They sailed to Capan (Edo. Falcón), where the preparation of the boats was completed. General Monagas appointed General Justo Briceño as Head of Sea and Land Operations for his actions in Maracaibo. The government squadron consisted of two divisions, one commanded by CN José María García and the other by TN Antonio Gregorio Lion. In total it had the brigs “Manzanares”, “Congreso”, and “Presidente”, the brigs- schooners “Ávila” and “Diana”, the schooners “Independencia”, “Estrella”, “Forzosa”, Fama, Democracia, “Eclipse”, “Intrépida” and “Boliviana”, and the war steamer “Libertador”. On October 6th they sailed towards the entrance of Lake Maracaibo. The next day they recognized the bar[clarification needed] and on the 8th they proceeded to climb it. Six revolutionary ships tried to cut them off, but were dispersed and took refuge under the fire of Castillo San Carlos. Once the Barra de Maracaibo was occupied, the naval forces of the Government demanded the surrender of the revolutionaries. They requested a period of 48 hours, which they used to prepare to fight. At dawn on 13 October, the conservatives attacked the constitutional forces with 17 ships, but were defeated after two hours of combat, in which they lost three ships, and dispersed at the end. After the battle the revolutionaries gathered at the mouth of the Zulia River on 23 December, where they were joined by ground forces from San Carlos Castle, protecting themselves with the ships that still remained, among them the steamer "General Jackson", armed with a 24-pounder cannon, another 8-pounder and another 4-pounder. General Justo Briceño [es] attacked the rebels in this position on December 31, defeated them, and captured the steamer, seven feluccas, and 30 dugouts. Afterwards, the National Squadron took the steamers "Libertador", "Tritón" and "General Jackson", in addition to the schooner "Intrepida". See also[edit] Barquisimeto rebellion Bibliography[edit] Esteves González, Edgar (2006). Las Guerras de Los Caudillos. Caracas: El Nacional. ISBN 980-388-247-3. Dixon, Jeffrey S. & Meredith Reid Sarkees (2015). A Guide to Intra-state Wars: An Examination of Civil, Regional, and Intercommunal Wars, 1816–2014. CQ Press. ISBN 9781506317984. References[edit] ^ a b c González, Edgar Esteves (2006). Las guerras de los caudillos (in Spanish). El Nacional. ISBN 978-980-388-247-1. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 75 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Venezuelan_civil_war_of_1848%E2%80%931849 responseCode 3 200 