fkjgcgrkyohctksaukrmggjcbgzkcitcfcvaxorq length 6 140142 page 10026 This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (February 2022) (template removal help) Building Georgia Governor's Mansion State of Georgia Governor's Mansion Location within Atlanta The Governor's Mansion is the official home of the governor of the U.S. state of Georgia. The mansion is located at 391 West Paces Ferry Road NW, in the Tuxedo Park neighborhood of the affluent Buckhead district of Atlanta. Construction[edit] The current Governor's Mansion is on property that belonged to former Atlanta mayor Robert Maddox (no relation to Lester Maddox), who owned a large English Tudor-style home on the site. A fire destroyed a large part of the house and Mr. Maddox sold the property to the state. The remainder of the home was demolished to construct the current mansion. The Governor's Mansion is a three-level, 30-room, Greek Revival style home built in 1967. It stands on approximately 18 acres (73,000 m²) on historic West Paces Ferry Road in north-northwest Atlanta. It was designed by Georgia architect A. Thomas Bradbury and officially opened on January 1, 1968. In 1975, the mansion was heavily damaged in a tornado that struck west and then north Atlanta on the morning of March 24,[1] occurring just a week after Governor Busbee moved in after his inauguration, and necessitating a renovation. It also led to the tornado being called the "governor's tornado",[1] the worst to hit the city until the 2008 storm that hit downtown. Later in 2008, the front door was damaged by fire during another renovation on the afternoon of September 11. The Atlanta Fire Department quickly extinguished the fire, and determined through thermal imaging that the fire had not spread inside the wall. Few people were present and nobody was injured, as it was after work hours, and the governor and his wife were away. Exterior[edit] The house covers 24,000 square feet (2,200 m²) and has a total of 30 Doric columns around the porches. These columns are made from California redwoods and are each 24 feet (7 m) high. They are hollowed out and specially treated on the inside to handle water drainage from the roof. The setting is park-like with numerous trees. On the grounds is the swimming pool, tennis courts, children's play area, and the greenhouse. The centerpiece of the entrance is a Georgia marble fountain with three large flagpoles. Interior[edit] The mansion has three levels: a lower level, the main level, and the upper level. The lower level has various rooms supporting the mansion. The ballroom is located on this level. The ballroom has a capacity of 175 for formal dinner and has uses for smaller functions as well. The pool and outside patio are also off this level. The main floor can be considered the State Floor. The majority of the rooms on this floor are used for official entertaining. The rooms also can be used for day-to-day activities. The Entrance Hall is the main entrance. Flanking the right side is the Georgia Library containing books written by Georgia authors. Flanking the left of the entrance is the guest bedroom, which is the only bedroom on the main floor. Toward the back of the mansion is the Circular Hall with its grand staircase. Located on the right is the State Dining Room and on the left the State sitting room. They are both used for formal state functions. The back center of the entrance hall contains the powder room on the right, Family Dining Room in front, and the Family Sitting Room to the left. The kitchen is in the back corner of the dining room. These are the three rooms used regularly by the family since this is the kitchen of the mansion. The upper floor contains the Governor's private living quarters. This level contains among other features the Governor's Mansion office, first lady's office, and family living room. There are several special bedrooms on this floor. The Presidential Suite with its own sitting room, bedroom, and bath has a commanding view of the front lawn. The Carter Bedroom, named after the former president, Lincoln Bedroom, and a couple of other bedrooms are also on this level. Furnishings[edit] All of the furnishings in the house are considered to be museum quality and make up one of the finest Federal period collections in the United States. These furnishings were acquired by a 70-member fine arts committee while the Mansion was being constructed. It is a permanent collection and belongs to the state of Georgia. It does not change from one administration to the next. Governors residing in the mansion[edit] Lester Maddox was the first governor to live there, followed by Jimmy Carter, George Busbee, Joe Frank Harris, Zell Miller, Roy Barnes, Sonny Perdue, Nathan Deal, and Brian Kemp, who is the mansion's current resident.[citation needed] Public tours[edit] Lester and Virginia Maddox, the first residents of the mansion, set a precedent of opening the mansion to the public for regularly scheduled tours, and that tradition has continued through today.[2] Tours are conducted throughout the year on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10:00 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. Reservations are needed for groups of 10 or more. There is no charge. Previous mansions[edit] Building Georgia Governor's Mansion 1870–1923 State of Georgia Governor's Mansion 1870–1923 Georgia has had three official mansions and one unofficial mansion in two different cities: The first Executive Mansion (1838–1868) was located in Milledgeville and is still open today for public tours. The state capital was moved from Milledgeville to Atlanta in 1868 and the first residence was unofficial, a three-story building on the east side of Peachtree Street, between Ellis and Baker streets, owned by Charles Larenden. In 1870 the first official mansion in Atlanta was purchased from John H. James at Cain (now Andrew Young Intl. Blvd.) and Peachtree and its first occupant was Rufus Bullock. Seventeen governors occupied this large Victorian home until Governor Dorsey vacated the increasingly rundown building for his summer home near the Atlanta Water Works in 1921. The old James home was demolished in 1923 and the Henry Grady Hotel was later built on that site, which is now occupied by the Westin Peachtree Plaza.[3] In 1925, the state acquired the granite mansion and estate of Edwin Ansley, located at The Prado in Ansley Park. That estate housed 11 governors before it was vacated and demolished in 1968, despite its historic importance. Notes[edit] ^ a b "Storm Data: March 1975 Volume 17 No. 3" (PDF). National Centers for Environmental Information. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. p. 4. Retrieved February 24, 2022. ^ Deal, p. 39. ^ Garrett, Vol.I, p.835. References[edit] Office of the Governor, Georgia State Capitol, Atlanta, GA 30334 Garrett, Franklin (1954). Atlanta and its Environs. University of Georgia Press. Deal, Sandra D., Jennifer W. Dickey, and Catherine M. Lewis (2015). Memories of the Mansion: The Story of Georgia's Governor's Mansion. University of Georgia Press.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) External links[edit] Official website of the Georgia Governor's Mansion 33°50′47″N 84°23′57″W﻿ / ﻿33.846409°N 84.39921°W﻿ / 33.846409; -84.39921 pictures of first Governor's mansion in Atlanta v t e Atlanta landmarks Current Cemeteries Decatur Greenwood Oakland South Bend Utoy Westview Commercial 200 Peachtree Academy of Medicine Atlantic Station AmericasMart Biltmore B. Mifflin Hood Brick Company Building Clermont Lounge Crum & Forster Building Fire Station No. 11 Five Points Coca-Cola sign Forsyth-Walton Building Georgia World Congress Center Kodak Building Lenox Square M.C. Kiser Company Building Magic City Manuel's Tavern Mary Mac's Tea Room Murder Kroger Phipps Plaza Ponce City Market Switchyards Building Underground Atlanta The Battery Atlanta The Varsity Educational Brittain Dining Hall Clough Undergraduate Learning Commons Food Processing Technology Building Georgia Tech Historic District Georgia Tech Library Klaus Advanced Computing Building Marcus Nanotechnology Building Omega Chapter of the Chi Phi Fraternity Student Competition Center Tech Tower Technology Square Governmental Atlanta City Hall Elbert P. Tuttle United States Court of Appeals Building Federal Penitentiary Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta Georgia Governor's Mansion Georgia Railroad Freight Depot Georgia State Capitol Miss Freedom Monuments Statue of Ellis Arnall Atlanta from the Ashes (The Phoenix) Autoeater Carnegie Education Pavilion Confederate Obelisk Continuing the Conversation Albert Einstein Memorial Erskine Memorial Fountain Statue of Evander Holyfield Expelled Because of Color Five Points Monument The First Graduate Free Nelson Mandela Gateway of Dreams Statue of Henry W. Grady Homage to King Hope Moving Forward Statue of Jimmy Carter Statue of John Brown Gordon Statue of John Stith Pemberton Kessler Campanile Statue of Martin Luther King Jr. Sidney Lanier Monument Millennium Gate Peace Monument Pioneer Women Statue of Samuel Spencer Thomas W. Talbot Monument Statue of Eugene Talmadge The Three Pioneers Statue of Thomas E. Watson Statue of Dominique Wilkins World Athletes Monument Museums APEX Museum Atlanta Contemporary Art Center Atlanta Cyclorama & Civil War Museum Atlanta History Center Callanwolde Fine Arts Center Children's Museum of Atlanta College Football Hall of Fame Delta Flight Museum Fernbank Museum of Natural History Fernbank Science Center Fire Station No. 6 Hammonds House Museum High Museum of Art Jimmy Carter Library and Museum Joel Chandler Harris House (Wren's Nest) King Plow Arts Center Margaret Mitchell House and Museum Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park Michael C. Carlos Museum Museum of Contemporary Art of Georgia Museum of Design Atlanta National Center for Civil and Human Rights Rhodes Memorial Hall House Museum Robert C. Williams Paper Museum W contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Georgia_Governor%27s_Mansion responseCode 3 200 