fonqbgnctghsscikdcyategcbozciojqaecapgfk page 8336 Species of turtle Yellow-headed box turtle Conservation status Critically Endangered (IUCN 2.3)[1] CITES Appendix II (CITES)[2] Scientific classification Domain: Eukaryota Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genus: Cuora Species: C. aurocapitata Binomial name Cuora aurocapitata Luo & Zong, 1988[3] Synonyms[4] Cuora aurocapitata Luo & Zhong, 1988 Cuora aureocapitata Patterson, 1994 (ex errore) Cuora pani aurocapitata Artner, 2003 Pyxiclemmys aurocapitata Vetter, 2006 Pyxiclemmys pani aurocapitata Vetter, 2006 The yellow-headed box turtle or golden-headed box turtle (Cuora aurocapitata) is a proposed species of turtle in the family Geoemydidae (formerly Bataguridae). It is sometimes considered a subspecies of Pan's box turtle (Cuora pani aurocapitata). Female Plastron This turtle is endemic to the central Chinese Anhui province.[5][6][7] It is found in Nanling County, Yi County, Guangde County, and Jing County. References[edit] ^ Asian Turtle Trade Working Group (2000). "Cuora aurocapitata". The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. IUCN. 2000: e.T5959A97350211. doi:10.2305/IUCN.UK.2000.RLTS.T5959A11956075.en. Retrieved 9 January 2018. Listed as Critically Endangered (CR A1d+2d) ^ "Appendices | CITES". cites.org. Retrieved 2022-01-14. ^ Luo, B. & Y. Zong. (1988). A new species of Cuora - Cuora aurocapitata. - Acta Herpetologica Sinica, Beijing, 3: 13-16 (in Chinese). ^ Fritz Uwe; Peter Havaš (2007). "Checklist of Chelonians of the World" (PDF). Vertebrate Zoology. 57 (2): 215. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-05-01. Retrieved 29 May 2012. ^ Blanck, T. & M. Tang (2005). Ein neuer Fundort von Cuora pani SONG, 1984 mit Diskussion über den taxonomischen Status von Cuora pani und Cuora aurocapitata. Sacalia. 7(3):16-37 ^ Blanck, T. & T. Kremser (2007). Bemerkungen zur Verbreitung von Cuora pani aurocapitata sowie neue Fundortnachweise. Teil I. Marginata. 13(4):52-56 ^ Blanck, T. & T. Kremser (2007). Bemerkungen zur Verbreitung von Cuora pani aurocapitata sowie neue Fundortnachweise. Teil II. Marginata. 14(4):50-52 v t e Family Geoemydidae Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genera Species of the family Geoemydidae †Banhxeochelys †Banhxeochelys trani Batagur Burmese roofed turtle Northern river terrapin Painted terrapin Red-crowned roofed turtle Southern river terrapin Three-striped roofed turtle Cuora Amboina box turtle Bourret's box turtle Indochinese box turtle McCord's box turtle Keeled box turtle Pan's box turtle Southern Vietnamese box turtle Golden coin turtle Vietnamese three-striped box turtle Yellow-headed box turtle Chinese box turtle Yunnan box turtle Zhou's box turtle Cyclemys Asian leaf turtle Assam leaf turtle Eastern black-bridged leaf turtle Enigmatic leaf turtle Myanmar brown leaf turtle Oldham's leaf turtle Western black-bridged leaf turtle †Echmatemys †Echmatemys septaria †Echmatemys stevensoniana †Echmatemys wyomingensis Geoclemys Black pond turtle Geoemyda Black-breasted leaf turtle Ryukyu black-breasted leaf turtle Hardella Brahminy river turtle Heosemys Arakan forest turtle Giant Asian pond turtle Spiny turtle Yellow-headed temple turtle Leucocephalon Sulawesi forest turtle Malayemys Malayan snail-eating turtle Mekong snail-eating turtle Khorat snail-eating turtle Mauremys Balkan pond turtle Caspian turtle Chinese pond turtle Chinese stripe-necked turtle Japanese pond turtle Red-necked pond turtle Spanish pond turtle Vietnamese pond turtle Yellow pond turtle Melanochelys Indian black turtle Tricarinate hill turtle Morenia Burmese eyed turtle Indian eyed turtle Notochelys Malayan flat-shelled turtle Orlitia Malaysian giant turtle Pangshura Assam roofed turtle Brown roofed turtle Indian roofed turtle Indian tent turtle †Pangshura tatrotia Rhinoclemmys Black wood turtle Brown wood turtle Colombian wood turtle Furrowed wood turtle Large-nosed wood turtle Maracaibo wood turtle Mexican spotted wood turtle Painted wood turtle Spot-legged wood turtle †Rhinoclemmys panamaensis Sacalia Beale's eyed turtle Four-eyed turtle Siebenrockiella Black marsh turtle Philippine forest turtle Vijayachelys Cane turtle Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on turtles of the world 2017 update: Annotated checklist and atlas of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution, and conservation status. †=Extinct. v t e Testudines Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder Superfamily Family Genus Cryptodira Chelonioidea (Sea turtles) Cheloniidae †Allopleuron Caretta †Carolinochelys Chelonia †Eochelone Eretmochelys †Gigantatypus †Glarichelys †Itilochelys Lepidochelys †Mexichelys †Miocaretta Natator †Pacifichelys †Syllomus †Tasbacka Dermochelyidae †Arabemys †Bouliachelys †Corsochelys †Cosmochelys Dermochelys †Eosphargis †Mesodermochelys †Psephophorus †Euclastes †Peritresius †Procolpochelys †Protosphargis †Puppigerus Kinosternoidea Dermatemydidae Dermatemys Kinosternidae Claudius †Hoplochelys Kinosternon Staurotypus Sternotherus Testudinoidea Emydidae Chrysemys Clemmys Deirochelys Emys Actinemys Emydoidea Glyptemys Graptemys Malaclemys Pseudemys Terrapene Trachemys Geoemydidae Batagur †Banhxeochelys Cuora Cyclemys Geoclemys Geoemyda Hardella Heosemys Leucocephalon Malayemys Mauremys Melanochelys Morenia Notochelys Orlitia Pangshura Rhinoclemmys Sacalia Siebenrockiella Vijayachelys Platysternidae Platysternon Testudinidae Aldabrachelys Astrochelys Centrochelys Chelonoidis Chersina Cylindraspis Geochelone Gopherus †Hadrianus †Hesperotestudo Homopus Indotestudo Kinixys Malacochersus Manouria †Megalochelys Psammobates Pyxis †Solitudo Stigmochelys †Stylemys Testudo Trionychia Carettochelyidae †Allaeochelys †Anosteira Carettochelys Trionychidae Amyda Apalone †Axestemys Chitra Cyclanorbis Cycloderma †Drazinderetes Dogania †Gilmoremys †Hutchemys †Khunnuchelys Lissemys Nilssonia Palea †Palaeoamyda Pelochelys Pelodiscus Rafetus Trionyx †Basilochelys †Sinaspideretes Chelydridae †Acherontemys Chelydra †Chelydrops †Chelydropsis †Emarginachelys †Macrocephalochelys Macrochelys †Planiplastron †Protochelydra †Nanhsiungchelyidae †Anomalochelys †Basilemys †Jiangxichelys †Protostegidae †Alienochelys †Archelon †Atlantochelys †Calcarichelys †Cratochelone †Desmatochelys †Iserosaurus †Notochelone †Ocepechelon †Pneumatoarthrus †Protostega †Rhinochelys †Santanachelys †Terlinguachelys †Adocus †Argillochelys †Bashuchelys †Ctenochelys †Prionochelys †Toxochelys Pleurodira †Araripemydidae †Araripemys †Bothremydidae †Araiochelys †Arenila †Azabbaremys †Bothremys †Cearachelys †Chedighaii †Chupacabrachelys †Eotaphrosphys †Foxemys †Galianemys †Ilatardia †Inaechelys †Itapecuruemys †Jainemys †Kinkonychelys †Kurmademys †Labrostochelys †Nigeremys †Phosphatochelys †Polysternon †Puentemys †Rosasia †Rhothonemys †Sankuchemys †Taphrosphys †Ummulisani †Zolhafah Chelidae Acanthochelys Chelodina Chelus Elseya Elusor Emydura Hydromedusa †Lomalatachelys Mesoclemmys Myuchelys Phrynops Platemys †Prochelidella Pseudemydura Rheodytes Rhinemys †Yaminuechelys Pelomedusidae Pelomedusa Pelusios Podocnemididae †Albertwoodemys †Bauruemys †Brontochelys †Caninemys †Carbonemys †Cerrejonemys †Cordichelys Erymnochelys †Lapparentemys †Latentemys Peltocephalus Podocnemis †Stupendemys †Sahonachelyidae †Sahonachelys †Sokatra †Caribemys †Caririemys †Tacuarembemys Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on Turtles of the World 2017 Update: Annotated Checklist and Atlas of Taxonomy, Synonymy, Distribution, and Conservation Status. † = extinct. See also List of Testudines families Taxon identifiers Wikidata: Q305908 Wikispecies: Cuora aurocapitata ADW: Cuora_aurocapitata ARKive: cuora-aurocapitata CoL: 6BRPB EoL: 1056711 Fossilworks: 373874 GBIF: 2443542 iNaturalist: 39909 IRMNG: 10371142 ITIS: 551908 IUCN: 5959 NCBI: 72008 RD: aurocapitata Species+: 8231 This article about a turtle is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 58 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Yellow-headed_box_turtle responseCode 3 200 