fqlsginiyixiqarsdkimnizqsafipcccsirovaxk length 6 105422 page 2919 Wikimedia Commons has media related to Analytic philosophers. v t e Analytic philosophy Related articles Areas of focus Metaphysics Epistemology Language Mathematics Science Turns Aretaic Linguistic Logic Classical Deviant Mathematical Non-classical Paraconsistent Philosophical Theories Anti-realism Australian realism Causal theory of reference Descriptivism Emotivism Feminism Functionalism Logical atomism Logical positivism Marxism Neurophilosophy Ordinary language Pragmatism Quietism Scientific structuralism Sense data Analytic theology Analytical Thomism Concepts Analysis (paradox of analysis) Analytic–synthetic distinction Counterfactual Natural kind Reflective equilibrium Supervenience Modality Actualism Necessity Possibility Possible world Realism Rigid designator Philosophers Noam Chomsky William Lane Craig Keith Donnellan Paul Feyerabend Gottlob Frege Edmund Gettier Jaakko Hintikka Giuseppe Peano Karl Popper Nathan Salmon Russ Shafer-Landau Ernest Sosa Barry Stroud Alfred Tarski Jan Łukasiewicz Michael Walzer Nicholas Wolterstorff Australian David Malet Armstrong David Chalmers J. L. Mackie Peter Singer J. J. C. Smart Cambridge Arif Ahmed Charlie Broad Casimir Lewy Norman Malcolm G. E. Moore Graham Priest Bertrand Russell Frank P. Ramsey Henry Sidgwick Ludwig Wittgenstein Oxford G. E. M. Anscombe J. L. Austin Michael Dummett Antony Flew Philippa Foot Peter Geach Paul Grice R. M. Hare Alasdair MacIntyre Derek Parfit Gilbert Ryle John Searle P. F. Strawson Richard Swinburne Charles Taylor Bernard Williams Timothy Williamson Logical positivists A. J. Ayer Ernest Nagel Berlin Circle Carl Gustav Hempel Hans Reichenbach Vienna Circle Rudolf Carnap Kurt Gödel Otto Neurath Moritz Schlick Harvard Roderick Chisholm Donald Davidson Daniel Dennett Nelson Goodman Christine Korsgaard Thomas Kuhn Thomas Nagel Robert Nozick Hilary Putnam W. V. O. Quine John Rawls Notre Dame Robert Audi Peter van Inwagen Alvin Plantinga Pittsburgh School Robert Brandom Patricia Churchland Paul Churchland Adolf Grünbaum John McDowell Ruth Millikan Alexander Pruss Nicholas Rescher Wilfrid Sellars Bas van Fraassen Pragmatism Susan Haack Nicholas Rescher Morton White Princeton Alonzo Church Jerry Fodor David Lewis Jaegwon Kim Saul Kripke Richard Rorty Quietism James F. Conant Alice Crary Cora Diamond Stanford School Nancy Cartwright John Dupré Peter Galison Ian Hacking Patrick Suppes Category Index Analytic philosophy (sometimes analytical philosophy) is a generic term for a style of philosophy that came to dominate English-speaking countries in the 20th century. In the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Scandinavia, Australia, and New Zealand, the overwhelming majority of university philosophy departments identify themselves as "analytic" departments. Analytic philosophers are those who practice analytic philosophy. Contents Top 0–9 A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 64 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Category:Analytic_philosophers responseCode 3 200 