fqmmioaoegyqaeuivoogmksipsvacswqlseohcbe length 6 133211 page 10004 Wikimedia file upload wizard Shortcut WP:FUW Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand copyright and the image use policy before proceeding. Upload your own or a freely licensed file Uploads to Wikimedia Commons Upload a non-free file Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the non-free content criteria You do not have JavaScript enabled Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain Special:Upload page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript. You are not currently logged in. Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please log in and then try again. Your account has not become confirmed yet. Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a confirmed account. Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it. You may already be able to upload files on the Wikimedia Commons, but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there. Important note: if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at Wikipedia:Files for upload. In very rare cases an administrator may make your account confirmed manually through a request at Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Confirmed. Step 1: Choose your file File: Choose a file from your computer. Maximum file size: 100 MB. Permitted file types: png, gif, jpg, jpeg, xcf, pdf, mid, mp3, mpeg, mpg, ogg, ogv, opus, svg, djvu, tiff, tif, oga, flac, wav, wave, webm, webp. Step 2: Describe your file Please provide a clear, descriptive name by which your file will be known on Wikipedia. This name must be unique across the whole of Wikipedia, so please make it informative and easy to recognize. It's no problem to use a fairly long name. It may also include spaces, commas and most other punctuation marks. Please also note that file names are case sensitive (with the exception of the first letter). Good: "City of London, skyline from London City Hall, Oct 2008.jpg". Bad: "Skyline.jpg", "DSC0001234.jpg". Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for # < > [ ] | : { } / and ~~~. Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now. The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use: Titles that consist only of very generic descriptive words (e.g. "Sunset.jpg", "Townhall.jpg") Titles that consist only of a person's first or last name, when that name is likely to be shared by many others (e.g. "John.jpg", "Miller.jpg") Titles that consist of mere numbers, of the kind often produced by digital cameras ("DSC_001234", "IMGP0345"), or random strings like those sometimes found on the web ("30996951316264l.jpg") Existing file. Last uploaded by Example user. A file of this name already exists on Commons! If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases. Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead. If you want to replace the existing file with an uncontroversial, improved version of the same work, please go to Commons and upload it there, not here on the English Wikipedia's local wiki. A file of this name already exists. If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to: No, I don't want to overwrite the existing file. I will choose a different name for my new file instead. Yes, I want to overwrite the existing file. My file is merely a new, improved and uncontentious version of the same work. The old description page, including the source and copyright information, will still be correct for the new version and can remain the same. Yes, I want to overwrite the existing file, and I will use this wizard to add a new description and new source information for it. The previous version was my own, or else I have made sure the previous uploader(s) don't object to this replacement. Please provide a brief description of the contents of this file. This will be stored and displayed as part of the file description page. It is important that other editors are able to understand what this file is about. What does this file show? What is it a photo/diagram/recording of? It will be helpful if you also add a wikilink to the article where you want to use it. Step 3: Provide source and copyright information It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. This is a free work. I can demonstrate that it is legally okay for anybody to use, in Wikipedia and elsewhere, for any purpose. Thank you for offering to upload a free work. Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the Wikimedia Commons. Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. Please consider uploading your file on Commons. However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here. Copyright status: This file is entirely my own work. I am the copyright holder. I made this myself, from scratch, without copying or incorporating anybody else's creative work, and I am willing to release it under a free license. Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. Do not use this section for any of the following: a scan or photograph you made of a painting, drawing, printed page or other item originally created by somebody else. The copyright belongs to the original creator, not to you. a screenshot or other kind of capture of a video, computer screen, TV programme or other kind of visual media. a picture you created by modifying or copying some other picture or by combining several preexisting pictures made by somebody else. a picture given to you by somebody else. a picture you found somewhere on the Internet. Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work" will be blocked from editing. Please describe how and when you created this item. How? (e.g.: Where and on what kind of occasion did you take this photo? How did you make this diagram? etc.) Date (please use YYYY-MM-DD format if possible). Publication: Please indicate here if you have previously published this item elsewhere, e.g. on your own website, your Flickr or Facebook account, etc., providing a link. It is important that you place this work under a free license, which will allow everybody else to use it for any purpose, including both commercial and non-commercial purposes, and to modify it. This license will be irrevocable. This file was given to me by its owner. The copyright owner of this file has given it to me for uploading on Wikipedia. I can provide evidence that they have agreed to release it under a free license, for free use by anybody and for any purpose. Please describe who owns this work and how you got it from them. Owner/author: Date of creation: Source: Where did you get the file from? (e.g. available online; was sent to me personally …) Permission: How did you receive the permission? (e.g.: by e-mail, personally, I work for the owner …) The copyright owner has chosen the following license: License: Other: Evidence: The license statement can be found online at: The license agreement has been forwarded to Wikimedia's volunteer response team at "permissions-en@wikimedia.org". OTRS ticket received: The license hasn't yet been forwarded, but I will do so shortly or ask the owner to send it. I haven't got the evidence right now, but I will provide some if requested to do so. Note: files without verifiable permissions may be deleted. You may be better off obtaining proof of permission first. This file is from a free published source. I took it from a website or other published source, where its author has explicitly placed it under a free license, allowing free re-use by anybody. Use this only if there is an explicit licensing statement in the source. The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this. If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please do not upload the file. Author/owner: Date of creation: Source: For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) The copyright owner has chosen the following license for this file: License: Other: Evidence: Provide a link to where the author explicitly says that the file is released under a free license. (if not visible on the source page itself). This work is so old its copyright has expired This is an old photograph, or a photographic rep contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard responseCode 3 200 