fqredqzgzgdcxoziscyezcwmaklqrgrgpsosqsgi length 6 293179 page 10017 Seat of government of a nation or state "Capital cities" redirects here. For the capital city of a county, see county seat. For other uses, see Capital City (disambiguation). A capital city or just capital is the municipality holding primary status in a country, state, province, department, or other subnational entity, usually as its seat of the government. A capital is typically a city that physically encompasses the government's offices and meeting places; the status as capital is often designated by its law or constitution. In some jurisdictions, including several countries, different branches of government are in different settlements, sometimes meaning multiple official capitals. In some cases, a distinction is made between the official (constitutional) capital and the seat of government, which is in another place. English-language news media often use the name of the capital city as an alternative name for the government of the country of which it is the capital, as a form of metonymy. For example, "relations between Washington and London" refers to "relations between the United States and the United Kingdom".[1] Terminology and etymology[edit] Skyline of Tokyo, the capital and financial centre of Japan The word capital derives from the Latin word caput (genitive capitis), meaning 'head'. In several English-speaking states, the terms county town and county seat are also used in lower subdivisions. In some unitary states, subnational capitals may be known as 'administrative centres'. The capital is often the largest city of its constituent, though not always. Origins[edit] The Roman Forum in Rome, surrounded by many government buildings Historically, the major economic centre of a state or region has often become the focal point of political power, and became a capital through conquest or federation.[2] Examples are ancient Babylon, Abbasid Baghdad, ancient Athens, Rome, Bratislava, Budapest, Constantinople, Chang'an, ancient Cusco, Kyiv, Madrid, Paris, Podgorica, London, Beijing, Prague, Tallinn, Tokyo, Lisbon, Riga, Vilnius, and Warsaw. (The modern capital city has, however, not always existed: in medieval Western Europe, an itinerant (wandering) government was common.)[3] The capital city naturally attracts politically motivated people and those whose skills are needed for efficient administration of national or imperial governments, such as lawyers, political scientists, bankers, journalists, and public policy makers. Some of these cities are or were also religious centres,[4] e.g. Constantinople (more than one religion), Rome/Vatican City (the Roman Catholic Church), Jerusalem (more than one religion), Babylon, Moscow (the Russian Orthodox Church), Belgrade (the Serbian Orthodox Church), Paris, and Beijing. In some countries, the capital has been changed for geopolitical reasons; Finland's first city, Turku, which had served as the country's capital since the Middle Ages under the Swedish rule, lost its right during the Grand Duchy of Finland in 1812, when Helsinki was made the current capital of Finland by the Russian Empire.[5] The convergence of political and economic or cultural power is by no means universal. Traditional capitals may be economically eclipsed by provincial rivals as is the case with Nanjing by Shanghai, Quebec City by Montreal, and several US state capitals. The decline of a dynasty or culture could also mean the extinction of its capital city, as occurred at Babylon[6] and Cahokia. "Political nomadism" was practiced in ancient Near East to increase ties between the ruler and the subjects.[7] Although many capitals are defined by constitution or legislation, many long-time capitals have no such legal designation, including Bern, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London, Paris, and Wellington. They are recognized as capitals as a matter of convention, and because all or almost all the country's central political institutions, such as government departments, supreme court, legislature, embassies, etc., are located in or near them. Modern capitals[edit] Many modern capital cities are located in the centre of countries so they are more accessible to its population and have better protection from possible invasions. (See also § Capitals in military strategy) The location may also be based on a compromise among two or more cities or other political divisions, historical reasons, or enough land was needed to deliberately build a new planned city for the capital.[8] The majority of national capitals are also the largest city in their respective countries. Counties in the United Kingdom have historic county towns, which are often not the largest settlement within the county and often are no longer administrative centres, as many historical counties are now only ceremonial, and administrative boundaries are different. The number of new capitals in the world increased substantially since the Renaissance period, especially with the founding of independent nation-states since the eighteenth century.[9] In Canada, there is a federal capital, while the ten provinces and three territories each have capital cities. The states of such countries as Mexico, Brazil (including the famous cities of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, capitals of their respective states), and Australia also each have capital cities. For example, the six state capitals of Australia are Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart, Melbourne, Perth, and Sydney. In Australia, the term "capital cities" is regularly used to refer to those six state capitals plus the federal capital Canberra, and Darwin, the capital of the Northern Territory. Abu Dhabi is the capital city of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and also of the United Arab Emirates overall. In unitary states which consist of multiple constituent nations, such as the United Kingdom and the Kingdom of Denmark, each will usually have its own capital city. Unlike in federations, there is usually not a separate national capital, but rather the capital city of one constituent nation will also be the capital of the state overall, such as London, which is the capital of England and of the United Kingdom. Similarly, each of the autonomous communities of Spain and regions of Italy has a capital city, such as Seville and Naples, while Madrid is the capital of the Community of Madrid and of the Kingdom of Spain as a whole and Rome is the capital of Italy and of the region of Lazio. In the Federal Republic of Germany, each of its constituent states (or Länder, plural of Land) has its own capital city, such as Dresden, Wiesbaden, Mainz, Düsseldorf, Stuttgart, and Munich, as do all of the republics of the Russian Federation. The national capitals of Germany and Russia (the Stadtstaat of Berlin and the federal city of Moscow) are also constituent states of both countries in their own right. Each of the states of Austria and cantons of Switzerland also have their own capital cities. Vienna, the national capital of Austria, is also one of the states, while Bern is the (de facto) capital of both Switzerland and of the Canton of Bern. Planned capitals[edit] L'Enfant Plan in Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States Governing entities sometimes plan, design and build new capital cities to house the seat of government of a polity or of a subdivision. Deliberately planned and designed capitals include: Abuja, Nigeria (1991) Aracaju, Sergipe, Brazil (1855) Ankara, Turkey (1923) Astana, Kazakhstan (1997) Austin, Texas, US (1839) Belmopan, Belize (1970) Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil (1897) Brasília, Brazil (1960) Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India (1948) Canberra, Australia (1927) Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana, India (1966) Columbia, South Carolina, US (1786) Constantinople, Roman Empire (324–330) Frankfort, Kentucky, US (1792) Gaborone, Botswana (1964) Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India (1960) Goiânia, Goiás, Brazil (1933) Huambo (Nova Lisboa), Huambo, Angola (1912) Indianapolis, Indiana, US (1825) Islamabad, Pakistan (1960) Jefferson City, Missouri, US (1821) La Plata, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina (1882) Nava Raipur or Atal Nagar, Chhattisgarh, India (2003) Naypyidaw, Myanmar (2005–2006) New Delhi, British India (1911) Nusantara, Indonesia (2024) Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, US (1889) Palmas, Tocantins, Brazil (1989) Putrajaya, Malaysia (1995) Quezon City, Philippines (1948–76) Raleigh, North Carolina, US (1792) Smederevo, Serbian Despotate (1428–1459) Soltaniyeh, Ilkhanate (1306–1335) Valletta, Malta (1571) Washington, D.C., US (1800) Zhongxing New Village, Nantou County, Taiwan Province, Rep. of China (1956) These cities satisfy one or both of the following criteria: A deliberately planned city that was built expressly to house the seat of government, superseding a capital city that was in an established population center. There have been various reasons for this, including overcrowding in that major metropolitan area, and the desire to place the capital city in a location with a better climate (usually a less tropical one). A town that was chosen as a compromise among two or more cities (or other political divisions), none of which was willing to concede to the other(s) the privilege of being the capital city. Usually, the new capital is geographically located roughly equidistant between the competing population centres. Compromise locations[edit] The Australian Parliament opened in the small town of Canberra in 1927 as a compromise between the largest cities, Sydney and Melbourne. Some examples of the second situation (compromise locations) are: Canberra, Australia, chosen as a compromise location between Melbourne and Sydney. Washington, D.C., United States, founded as a compromise between more urbanized Northern states and agrarian Southern slave states to share national power. The Compromise of 1790, resulted in the passage of the Residence Act, which approved the creation of a national capital on the Potomac River on land ceded from Maryland and Virginia.[10] Frankfort, Kentucky, midway between Louisville and Lexington. Ot contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Capital_city responseCode 3 200 