gchgxqjixmxelcocpkashijmnkkiegwiqoxigchk length 6 141594 page 10002 This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, and may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:LEARN WP:ROPES Contributing to Wikipedia (Tutorial) Policies and guidelines Editing policy Content policies Dispute resolution Simple rule set Simple style manual Introductions About Wikipedia Administration How to contribute Tutorial How-to pages Creating an account How to edit Starting an article Article wizard Talk pages Referencing Renaming Deletion Media Lists Tables Templates Copying text Style tips Wikitext Writing advice Article development Basic copyediting Layouts Avoiding mistakes Writing better Perfect article Advanced editing Community Portal Dashboard Essays Maintenance Task Center WikiProjects Editor's index Directories and indexes FAQs Help index Tools Interactive help Teahouse Help desk v t e Welcome to Wikipedia! This lesson is specifically about how to use Wikipedia to learn about Wikipedia. Here we will point out all the resources dedicated to help you help Wikipedia. This isn't just for beginners; below we cover how to learn in general, which can be applied to any particular skill or area of activity on Wikipedia. For the article on how and where you can help see contributing to Wikipedia. Learn your way around:[edit] Here's a quick overview of Wikipedia's structure: To access an encyclopedia article directly, type the topic or subject into Wikipedia's search box, and click "Go". If an article by that name exists, it will be displayed on your screen. If an article with that exact name doesn't exist, the program will automatically look for near matches (in the titles and content of pages) and display the matches it finds in a list for you to choose from. If you pressed "Go", and got an article you weren't looking for, press "Search" - that'll bypass the viewing and will execute the match search just described. For instructions on how to access other page types besides encyclopedia articles, see the section immediately below. By namespace[edit] Wikipedia can be considered to be two levels deep. The top level is the encyclopedia itself (the collection of articles about every subject under the sun, and beyond), and it is therefore the easiest to access - simply enter the name of the article you wish to view in Wikipedia's searchbox. The section of Wikipedia that the articles are on is called the "main namespace". It is Wikipedia's default namespace - pages from all other namespaces must have their namespace specified in searches or links (followed by a colon). But not articles in the main namespace. Because they're the whole point of Wikipedia. All of Wikipedia's namespaces other than the main namespace can be considered Wikipedia's 2nd level. For a list and explanation of these, see Help:Namespace. By link structure[edit] Almost every page on Wikipedia is connected within a massive web of links. Some pages are more centrally connected than others and serve as tables of contents or directories to the information on Wikipedia. These pages are presented in Wikipedia's 3 main navigation bars, found at the top of the very same pages, the navbars allowing for easy movement between and browsing of these pages. Each of these navbars is just one-click away... The following navbar presents the tables of contents to the encyclopedia itself, and is accessible from the Contents link on the sidebar, or from the top of the Main Page. Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Vital articles Featured content Good articles Indices A–Z index The next navbar shows the Wikipedia community's main directories and resource pages, and it is accessible from the Community Portal link in Wikipedia's navigation menu (in the sidebar). Note that policies and guidelines are listed on the shortcuts directory. Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Chat Meetups Directories (Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects) Wikipedia's main help pages are available on the navbar below, which is accessible from the Help link on the Main Page and on Wikipedia's navigation menu (in the sidebar). About Wikipedia Administration FAQ Contributing Tips Tasks Tutorial Help menu Directories Cheatsheet Asking questions Help desk Reference desk Teahouse The template below outlines Wikipedia's help pages and can be viewed at the bottom of most related pages. v t e Wikipedia help pages Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum. FAQs (?) Reference desks (?) Noticeboards (?) Cheatsheet (?) Directories (?) About Wikipedia (?) Administration Purpose Principles Policies and guidelines What Wikipedia is not Disclaimer (parental advice) Making requests Who writes Wikipedia? Help for readers (?) FAQ Books Copyright Glossary Mobile access Navigation Other languages Searching Students Viewing media Contributing to Wikipedia (?) Advice for young editors Avoiding common mistakes Etiquette Simplified Manual of Style Simplified rule-set "Ignore all rules" "The rules are principles" Style-tips Tip of the day Your first article (article wizard) Getting started (?) Why create an account? Introductions by topic Graphics tutorials Picture tutorial IRC (live chat) tutorial VisualEditor user guide Dos and don'ts (?) Accessibility Biographies Biographies (living) Categorization Consensus Discussions Disambiguation Images Leads Links Lists References Tables Titles (of articles) How-to pages and information pages (?) Appealing blocks Article deletion Categories Citations/references Referencing for beginners Citation Style 1 Cite errors References and page numbers Convert Diff Editing Minor edit toolbar edit conflict Find sources Files Footnotes Image deletion Infoboxes Linking (link color) Logging in Merging Page name Renaming pages Redirect Passwords Email confirmation Reverting Simple vandalism cleanup Talk pages (archiving simple archiving) User contributions WP search protocol Coding (?) Wiki markup Barcharts Calculations Characters Columns Elevation Hidden text HTML Lists Magic words Music symbols Sections Sounds Tables Templates Transclusion URL Visual files Directories (?) Abbreviations Contents (Encyclopedia proper) Departments Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Guidelines Manual of Style Policies Tasks Tips Tools Missing Manual Ask for help on your talk page (?) Other major link structures[edit] When looking for subjects relevant to any particular page you are viewing, be sure to check the page's "See also" section (if it has one), and also the "What links here" command in the toolbar menu on the sidebar on the left-side of your screen (the location of this command on the page varies if you have selected a skin in "my preferences"). Learn by reading and doing[edit] Tutorials Help:Tutorial (main introduction and tutorial) Contributing to Wikipedia Introduction to referencing Introduction to uploading images Introduction to navigating Wikipedia Fundamentals of editing Learning the ropes A Primer for newcomers User guides to ... Scartol, on template use and design Dweller, on Featured Article Candidates Yuser, on fighting linkspam Deletion and deletionism Reporting and dealing with vandals Grutness's guide to stubbing In the wp:Signpost Summary of policies How to use an ImageMap Getting an article to featured article status Basic dispute resolution Adding citations The published book, online The Missing Manual Help contents Help menu Help directory v t e The most direct way to learn is to just jump in and try to do things. Instructions on just about every aspect of Wikipedia are available to assist you in your endeavors... Help pages[edit] Wikipedia's instructions manuals, and recorded know-how: Help:Contents - Wikipedia's main help page. Wikipedia:Help index - a descriptive directory of informative, instructional and supportive pages. Wikipedia:Tutorial - Quick lessons on all the basics of editing an article in Wikipedia. User:The Transhumanist/Virtual classroom - lessons on key Wikipedia subjects. (Like the one you are reading right now). Wikipedia:Help desk - While this is the place to ask questions about how to use Wikipedia, it is also a great place to read the answers to questions asked by others. Wikipedia:Help desk/Archive - More of the above. Pre-answered questions[edit] Just about every question you can think of has probably already been asked and answered on Wikipedia, somewhere. Save time by looking them up directly. Here's where to find them and their answers: VFAQ - the questions asked the most often about Wikipedia, and their answers. FAQ - If you have a general or fairly basic question about how to do something on Wikipedia, the chances are that your question is asked and answered here. Wikipedia:Help desk/Archive - all the questions ever asked at the help desk are kept here. If you read through a few hundred questions and answers, you will have a pretty good feel for Wikipedia's operations. Wikipedia:Village pump (technical)/Archive - like the help desk, but the questions and advice are far more complex, tricky, or expert-level. If you read a few thousand of these questions and their answers, you'll be a Wikipedia expert (or well on your way). Learn by asking[edit] If you can't figure something out or are having trouble finding what you need to know, ask. Keep in mind that most questions that have been asked before, and their answers, are immediately accessible. See Pre-answered questions, above. Here's where to ask new questions, or questions you can't find the answer to: Help forums[edit] Volunteers are standing by... Wikipedia:Teahouse - a "very friendly place" for new editors to become accustomed to and ask questions about editing. Wikipedia:Help desk - the "main" place to ask questions about how to do something on Wikipedia, and receive answers fast. Wikipedia:Reference desk - where to ask encyclopedic questio contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Learning_the_ropes responseCode 3 200 