geempcgazeckimxkmslaxanccqaizozkaidsgmdo page 10003 Upcoming national election Next Myanmar general election ← 2020 (annulled) TBD 315 of the 440 seats in the Pyithu Hluttaw 221 seats needed for a majority 161 of the 224 seats in the Amyotha Hluttaw 113 seats needed for a majority Leader Khin Yi Thar Tun Hla Party USDP ANP Leader since 5 October 2022 Last election 26 R / 7 N 4 R / 4 N Incumbent President Myint Swe (acting) USDP Politics of Myanmar Constitution 2008 Constitution Constitutional Tribunal Chairman: Than Kyaw National Defence and Security Council Government President (list) Myint Swe (acting) State Administration Council Chairman: Min Aung Hlaing Vice Chairman: Soe Win Vice-President First: Myint Swe Second: Henry Van Thio Prime Minister (list) Min Aung Hlaing Deputy Prime Minister Soe Win Mya Tun Oo Tin Aung San Soe Htut Win Shein Cabinet Provisional Government Legislature (dissolved) House of Nationalities Speaker House of Representatives Speaker Opposition Judiciary Supreme Court Chief Justice: Htun Htun Oo Constitutional Tribunal Chairman: Than Kyaw Recent elections General: 2015 2020 Next Presidential: 2016 2018 Next Political parties Administrative divisions States, Regions and Union Territories Self-Administered Zones and Divisions Districts Townships Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs Minister: Wunna Maung Lwin Ministry of International Cooperation Minister: Ko Ko Hlaing Diplomatic missions of / in Myanmar Passport Visa requirements Visa policy Exiled government Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw National Unity Government President: Duwa Lashi La (acting) Prime Minister: Mahn Win Khaing Than Vice President: Duwa Lashi La Related topics Human rights National Human Rights Commission Naming issues Myanmar portal Other countries v t e This article contains Burmese script. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Burmese script. In Myanmar's next general election, voters are expected to elect representatives to both the Amyotha Hluttaw and the Pyithu Hluttaw of the Assembly of the Union. The planned election would be the first after the 2021 military coup d'état. Though the military junta, the State Administration Council, initially promised to hold the election by August 2023, it has since indefinitely delayed the election in the face of increasing violence. Since the coup, the military has ruled the country under a state of emergency, initially declared by Acting President Myint Swe for one year and extended four times by six-month periods, currently set to expire on 1 February 2024.[1] The constitution requires elections be held within six months of the end of the state of emergency. The military is expected to seek legitimacy for its extended rule through the election, which is unlikely to be free and fair. In January 2023, the military enacted a new electoral law switching from a first-past-the-post to a proportional system, to improve the electoral performance of the military proxy Union Solidarity and Development Party, which performed poorly in the free and fair 2020 election.[2] Added to the previously existing 25% reserved seats to the military, the switch would allow it to govern with barely one fourth of the popular vote.[3][4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11] The National League for Democracy, which was removed from power in the coup, announced in February 2023 that it would not register under the new law, and was declared dissolved by the election commission the following month.[12][13] The second-largest opposition party, the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy, similarly announced it would not participate in the election.[14][15] Background[edit] Myanmar, previously known as Burma, has been under a dictatorship for the majority of its independent history. First, under Ne Win and his Burma Socialist Programme Party, and then under a military junta. In the early 2010s, Myanmar transitioned into a state of semi-democracy, finally culminating in the 2015 elections, where democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi became State Counsellor, and her party the National League for Democracy won a landslide victory.[16] 2020 election performance[edit] On the eve of the November 2020 election, Min Aung Hlaing publicly questioned the legitimacy of the upcoming 2020 election.[17] After casting his ballot, he vowed to accept the election results.[18] In the 2020 general elections, the NLD won another landslide over the Tatmadaw (military)-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party, which lost additional seats in both chambers of the national legislature. Domestic and international election observers deemed the election results credible, noting no major irregularities.[19][20] Nonetheless, the military claimed the vote was fraudulent, citing 8.6 million irregularities in voter lists.[21] On 28 January 2021, the Union Election Commission rejected the military's fraud allegations, unable to corroborate the military's claims.[21] 2021 military coup[edit] On 1 February 2021, the military launched a coup. Suu Kyi was detained, along with President Win Myint, and other key individuals. Senior General Min Aung Hlaing took power, organizing a junta called the State Administration Council (SAC). Myint Swe was declared interim President, and a state of emergency was declared for one year. In late February, the SAC unveiled a five-point roadmap, with the ultimate goal of holding "a free and fair multiparty democracy election."[22] Aung San Suu Kyi received a number of frivolous charges, including breaching emergency COVID-19 laws, illegally importing and using walkie-talkies, violating the National Disaster Law,[23] violating communications laws, inciting public unrest, and violating the official secrets act.[24][25] On 6 December 2021, she was sentenced to four years in prison, but Hlaing commuted her sentence to two years. Her conviction complicates her ability to hold public office.[26] On 1 August 2021, Hlaing formed a caretaker government, and declared himself Prime Minister, whilst remaining the Chairman of the SAC.[27] The Tatmadaw originally promised to hold the elections when the state of emergency expired on 1 February 2022, but pushed back the elections to 2023. Dissolution of the NLD[edit] On 21 May 2021, the junta-appointed Union Election Commission announced plans to permanently dissolve the National League for Democracy.[28] NLD offices were occupied and raided by police authorities, starting on 2 February.[29] Documents, computers and laptops were forcibly seized, and the NLD called these raids unlawful.[29] On 9 February, police raided the NLD headquarters in Yangon.[30] Aung San Suu Kyi has commented on the possibility of her party's forced dissolution saying, "Our party grew out of the people so it will exist as long as people support it."[31] In January 2022, the junta reversed its plan to dissolve the NLD, with spokesman Zaw Min Tun saying that the NLD will decide whether to stand in the 2023 election.[32] In February 2023, the NLD announced it would not re-register as a political party under a strict new electoral law enacted by the junta the previous month.[12] The electoral commission automatically disbanded NLD, along with 39 other parties, on 28 March 2023.[33] Electoral system[edit] A ballot paper in 2020 Previously, Myanmar has exclusively used the first-past-the-post system, in which a candidate needs only a plurality of votes in a constituency to be elected. On 16 June 2022, Khin Maung Oo, a member of the Union Election Commission, said at a press conference in Naypyidaw that the country will use a proportional representation system instead for the next election.[34] Existing system[edit] In the existing system, the national legislature, the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw consists of a total of 498 seats elected in single-member constituencies, and 166 seats reserved for military appointees. The Pyithu Hluttaw, or House of Representatives, is elected every five years. It is the lower house. It has 440 MPs, 330 of which are elected in single-member constituencies, one for each township. A further 110 members (one quarter) are appointed by the Tatmadaw. The Amyotha Hluttaw, or House of Nationalities, is elected every five years. It is the upper house. It has 224 MPs, 168 of which are elected in single-member constituencies, 12 in each state or region. A further 56 members (one quarter) are appointed by the Tatmadaw. In Myanmar, it is not uncommon for elections to be cancelled partially or completely in some constituencies due to insurrection. After the new legislators take office, the President and the two Vice Presidents of Myanmar are elected by the Presidential Electoral College, made up of MPs from three committees: one of elected members from each house of the Assembly of the Union, and one from the military-appointed members. Each committee recommends one candidate, and the Assembly then holds a vote. The position the candidates are elected to depends on their overall vote total (the highest vote-getter becomes President, while the second-highest becomes First Vice President, and the remaining candidate becomes Second Vice President). People married to a non-Burmese citizen and/or who have children without Burmese citizenship are barred from being elected to any presidential position. This requirement has been criticized by some as being an attempt to disqualify Suu Kyi. Her late husband was a British citizen, so she was ineligible to be President. Instead, she became State Counsellor, and President Win Myint was seen as her puppet. Revisions to the existing system[edit] In December 2021, the junta-appointed Union Electoral Commission convened with 60 political parties on the electoral system. The cohort determined that it would be advisable to switch to a system of party-list proportional representation (PR). The largest remainder method will be used, and the lists will be closed, although there may be a switch to open lists "when the level of education of the electorate a contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 63 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/2023_Myanmar_general_election responseCode 3 200 