gegstqsqdotajkrgcsjilgmsjgyetqoqfahcmqvc length 6 145469 page 3957 Counterpart of Featured Articles for images "WP:FP" redirects here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:Flagged protection, Wikipedia:Five pillars, Wikipedia:Featured portals, Wikipedia:Edit filter/False positives, and Wikipedia:Protection policy § Full protection. Featured pictures in Wikipedia This star symbolizes the featured content on Wikipedia. This page highlights the finest images on Wikipedia. The featured picture criteria explains that featured pictures must be freely licensed or in the public domain, must be of a high technical quality, and must add significantly to at least one article on Wikipedia. There are currently 7,679 featured pictures, and they are categorized below by the topic they represent. All featured pictures are also available in a category. If you wish to add a specific image to this page, please nominate it at Wikipedia:Featured picture candidates. One or more featured pictures are chosen as the picture of the day (POTD). You can include a box displaying the current POTD anywhere (e.g. your user page) by adding the text {{pic of the day}} or {{POTD}} where you want the picture to be shown. Featured pictures from all Wikimedia projects can be browsed by subject or by country on Wikimedia Commons. Shortcuts WP:FP WP:FI Featured content: Featured articles Featured lists Featured pictures ← On Wikimedia Commons Featured topics Featured picture tools: Featured picture criteria Featured picture candidates Nomination procedure On Wikimedia Commons Featured picture candidates archive Featured pictures thumbs Picture of the day Picture of the day archive Random featured picture Directory of featured pictures Animals Artwork Culture, entertainment, and lifestyle Currency Diagrams, drawings, and maps Engineering and technology Food and drink Fungi History Natural phenomena People Photographic techniques, terms, and equipment Places Plants Sciences Space Vehicles Other lifeforms Other Animals » subpages: amphibians, arachnids, birds, cnidarians, crustaceans, echinoderms, fish, insects, mammals, molluscs, reptiles, others Artwork » subpages: East Asian art, literary illustrations, paintings, sculpture, others Culture, entertainment, and lifestyle » subpages: culture and lifestyle, entertainment, religion and mythology, sport, theatre Currency » subpages: American currency, Asian currency, European currency, USA banknotes, USA coins, Other Diagrams, drawings, and maps » subpages: diagrams, drawings, maps Engineering and technology » subpages: electronics, machinery, weaponry, others. See also: vehicles Food and drink » more ... Fungi » more ... History » subpages: American history, other history, American Civil War, World War I, World War II, other wars Natural phenomena » subpages: atmospheric optics, weather, others People » subpages: artists and writers, business, entertainment, law, military, political, religious figures, royalty and nobility, science and engineering, sport, traditional dress, others Photographic techniques, terms, and equipment » more ... Places » subpages: architecture, interiors, landscapes, panorama, urban, others Plants » subpages: flowers, fruits, others Sciences » subpages: biology, geology, materials science, mathematics, others. See also: astronomy. Space » subpages: getting there, looking back, looking out, panorama, understanding Vehicles » subpages: air, land, water Other lifeforms » subpages: bacteria, protists Other » more ... Content listings Types Vital articles Featured content Good articles Spoken articles Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Places, people and times Academic disciplines Anniversaries today Countries and territories Timelines decades, centuries, and millennia Indices A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_pictures responseCode 3 200 