gexmqkwqrceqrmhqmspgmqwotarkbsxkrshqmgra page 10012 SKIP TO THE BOTTOM Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This page holds approved nominations that are waiting to appear in the "Did you know" section on the Main Page. Following DYK approval, nominations are processed and moved into a Prep area, and from there, prep sets are promoted to a queue, and then to the main page. To create a new nomination or to see those that are yet to be approved, see Template talk:Did you know. For the discussion page see WT:DYK. Click on the link to go directly to the Special occasion holding area. Click here to "purge" this page (if it looks like updates to subsidiary templates aren't being reflected). If some of the nominations are not showing up properly at the bottom of the page, these alternative pages can be used to view a subset of the most recent nominations. Nominations from the most recent week second-most third-most fourth-most TOC: ↓ Go to bottom ↓ ↑ Go to top ↑ Count of DYK Hooks Section # of Hooks # Verified August 6 1 August 20 1 August 27 1 August 28 1 August 31 1 September 3 3 1 September 5 1 September 7 1 September 13 1 September 17 2 1 September 18 2 September 20 1 September 22 1 September 24 2 September 25 September 26 1 September 28 1 September 29 1 October 1 1 October 2 2 October 3 3 October 4 1 October 5 1 1 October 6 2 October 8 4 October 9 4 October 12 1 October 14 2 October 15 1 October 16 2 October 17 3 1 October 18 1 1 October 19 3 2 October 20 5 1 October 21 8 6 October 22 4 October 24 4 2 October 25 5 3 October 26 6 3 October 27 2 2 October 28 5 5 October 29 3 3 October 30 11 5 October 31 4 2 November 1 9 4 November 2 5 1 November 3 8 5 November 4 6 4 November 5 10 5 November 6 3 1 November 7 12 7 November 8 7 4 November 9 8 4 November 10 8 2 November 11 7 4 November 12 9 5 November 13 8 1 November 14 13 6 November 15 6 2 November 16 8 3 November 17 7 2 November 18 8 2 November 19 8 4 November 20 2 Total 262 105 Last updated 22:39, 20 November 2023 UTC Current time is 23:01, 20 November 2023 UTC [refresh] Instructions for nominators[edit] This page is for those nominations that have already been approved and are waiting to be promoted. If yours has been approved but has not yet been run on the main page, it should either be on this page or will soon be moved here, or already promoted to a Prep area or Queue ahead of an appearance on the main page. If you wish to create a new nomination, please go to the Template talk:Did you know page; there are instructions there in a section similar to this one on how to nominate an article for DYK. Frequently asked questions[edit] Backlogged?[edit] This page is often backlogged. As long as your submission is still on the page, it will stay there until someone promotes it to a preparation area. To alleviate this problem, if the approved page has more than 120 approved hooks, then sets will change twice per day (every 12 hours) instead of once per day (every 24 hours). When the backlog falls below 60 approved nominations set frequency returns to once a day. Where is my hook?[edit] If you can't find the nomination you submitted to the nominations page, and it also isn't on this page, in most cases it means your article has been approved and is either in one of the prep areas, has been promoted from prep to a queue, or is on the main page. If the nominated hook is in none of those places, then the nomination has probably been rejected. Such a rejection usually only occurs if it was at least a couple of weeks old and had unresolved issues for which any discussion had gone stale. If you think your nomination was unfairly rejected, you can query this on the DYK discussion page, but as a general rule such nominations will only be restored in exceptional circumstances. Instructions for other editors[edit] How to promote an accepted hook[edit] See Wikipedia:Did you know/Preparation areas for full instructions. In one window, open the DYK nomination subpage of the hook you would like to promote. In another window, open the prep set you intend to add the hook to. In the prep set... Paste the hook into the hook area (be sure to not paste in that that) Paste the credit information ({{DYKmake}} and/or {{DYKnom}}) into the credits area. Add an edit summary, e.g., "Promoted [[Jane Fonda]]", preview, and save Back on DYK nomination page... change {{DYKsubpage to {{subst:DYKsubpage change |passed= to |passed=yes Add an edit summary, e.g., "Promoted original hook to Prep 3", preview, and save How to remove a hook from the prep areas or queue[edit] Edit the prep area or queue where the hook is and remove the hook and the credits associated with it. Go to the hook's nomination subpage (there should have been a link to it in the credits section). View the edit history for that page Go back to the last version before the edit where the hook was promoted, and revert to that version to make the nomination active again. Add a new icon on the nomination subpage to cancel the previous tick and leave a comment after it explaining that the hook was removed from the prep area or queue, and why, so that later reviewers are aware of this issue. Add a transclusion of the template back to the nominations page so that reviewers can see it. It goes under the date that it was first created/expanded/listed as a GA. You may need to add back the day header for that date if it had been removed from the nominations page. If you removed the hook from a queue, it is best to either replace it with another hook from one of the prep areas, or to leave a message at WT:DYK asking someone else to do so. Nominations[edit] Special occasion holding area[edit] Shortcut WP:SOHA Do not nominate articles in this section—nominate all articles in the nominations section on the regular nominations page, under the date on which the article was created or moved to mainspace, or the expansion began, or it was listed as a Good Article; be sure to indicate in the nomination any request for a specially timed appearance on the main page. Note: Articles intended to be held for special occasion dates should be nominated within seven days of creation, start of expansion, or promotion to Good Article status. The nomination should be made between at least one week prior to the occasion date, to allow time for reviews and promotions through the prep and queue sets, but not more than six weeks in advance. The proposed occasion must be deemed sufficiently special by reviewers. The timeline limitations, including the six week maximum, may be waived by consensus, if a request is made at WT:DYK, but requests are not always successful. Discussion clarifying the hold criteria can be found here: [1]; discussion setting the six week limit can be found here: [2]. April Fools' Day hooks are exempted from the timeline limit; see Wikipedia:April Fool's Main Page/Did You Know. No current requests[edit] Approved nominations[edit] Articles created/expanded on September 3[edit] Louise Franklin ( Review or comment Article history ) ... that films starring actress Louise Franklin were banned in Memphis, Tennessee, by the film censor because they depicted African-Americans as "well-dressed, intelligent, acting sweethearts"? Source: "Shades of the late Lloyd Binford, who banned Rochester and Louise Franklin in "Brewster's Millions," and others because they portrayed well-dressed, intelligent acting sweethearts in the films." - Talk of the Week, The Call ALT1: ... that a film starring African-American actress Louise Franklin in a role showcasing "well-dressed, intelligent acting sweethearts" was banned by the film censor in Memphis, Tennessee? ALT2: ... that actress Louise Franklin replaced the main dancing role in 1945's Pillow to Post after Dorothy Dandridge was injured in a car accident? Source: Scene Saved As Louise Take Over For Injured Dandridge Reviewed: Template:Did you know nominations/Small-town opera house Comment: Article was moved from draftspace to mainspace with this edit. Created by Silver seren (talk) and FloridaArmy (talk). Nominated by Silver seren (talk) at 19:34, 3 September 2023 (UTC). Post-promotion hook changes for this nom will be logged at Template talk:Did you know nominations/Louise Franklin; consider watching this nomination, if it is successful, until the hook appears on the Main Page.Reply[reply] General: Article is new enough and long enough New enough: Y Long enough: Y Policy: Article is sourced, neutral, and free of copyright problems Adequate sourcing: Y Neutral: Y Free of copyright violations, plagiarism, and close paraphrasing: Y Hook: Hook has been verified by provided inline citation Cited: Y Interesting: Y QPQ: Done. Overall: Nice work. "1930's" and "50's" should be changed to "1930s", "1950s" etc. per MOS:DECADES, but I won't delay approval of this DYKN over this issue. Epicgenius (talk) 23:04, 6 September 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Silverseren, Epicgenius, and Vaticidalprophet: I've pulled this hook out of prep per discussion at WT:DYK. If another hook could be found or the sourcing could be bolstered, that'd be ideal :) theleekycauldron (talk • she/her) 09:12, 13 September 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] The WTDYK discussion looked like it was resolving towards "... that films starring African-American actress Louise Franklin in roles showcasing "well-dressed, intelligent acting sweethearts" were banned by the film censor i contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:DYKNA responseCode 3 200 