gezgxcngdedogefimsqgtoiefiycjiqkeaymaqgk page 10184 2022 attack in Luhansk Oblast, Ukraine Stara Krasnianka care house attack Part of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine Location Stara Krasnianka [ru; uk], Luhansk Oblast, Ukraine Date 11 March 2022 Target Nursing home Attack type Shelling by a tank, Use of Human shields Deaths ~50 Perpetrators Russian separatist forces in Donbas and Ukraine v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia On 11 March 2022, the attack to the care house in Stara Krasnianka [ru; uk] during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. On 7 March, the Ukrainian armed forces reportedly occupied a care house in the village of Stara Krasnianka, near Kreminna, Luhansk region, and set up a firing position there without first evacuating the residents. On 11 March 2022, pro-Russian separatist forces attacked the care house with heavy weapons while 71 patients with disabilities and 15 members of staff were still inside. A fire broke out and approximately fifty people died. Events[edit] As reported by OHCHR, on 7 March, Ukrainian soldiers took up positions inside the care house in the village of Stara Krasnianka [ru; uk], near Kreminna (Luhansk Oblast) and set up a firing base there without first evacuating residents and staff.[1] In the preceding days, the Ukrainian armed forces had allegedly mined the surrounding area and blocked roads, which prevented the local authorities from evacuating the site, as requested by the management of the care home.[1][2] On 9 March, the Ukrainian forces based at the care house engaged in the first exchange of fire with pro-Russian separatists without casualties among the civilian residents of the house. It is unclear which side was the first to open fire.[1] On March 11, dozens of elderly and disabled patients, some of them bedridden, were in the care house without water or electricity, along with the Ukrainian soldiers.[3][2][1] On 11 March, pro-Russian separatist armed groups attacked the care house again and used heavy weapons while patients and staff were still inside.[1] The attack caused a fire that spread throughout the facility and killed the patients who could not move.[3][2] A group of residents fled the house, walked for 5 kilometres in the forest and was given assistance by pro-Russian separatists.[3] 22 patients survived the attack but as of 29 June the exact number of persons killed remains unknown.[1] On 20 March Serhiy Haidai, governor of Luhansk region, reported 56 victims.[4][5] At the time of the attack, 71 patients with disabilities and 15 staff were at the house.[1] Aftermath[edit] In the aftermath of the attack, the Ukrainian ombudsperson Denisova stated that more than 50 elderly people in the care home had been deliberately fired upon by a tank, and called the attack a "crime against humanity" by "racist occupation forces".[6] Serhiy Haidai, governor of Luhansk region, reported 56 victims from the attack, which he called "cynical and deliberate".[4][5] He also said that 15 survivors had been kidnapped by the occupiers and taken to a geriatric hospital in Svatove, at the time under separatist control.[4] On 20 March Ukraine's prosecutor general announced war crimes charges against Russia for the attack on a medical facility,[4] and the US Embassy in Ukraine stated that Russia would bear responsibility for the crime.[7] In the first half of April, a Russian Telegram channel published a video from the destroyed nursing home, which showed many burned bodies, ammunition and weapons among the ruins. The Washington Post "verified the location of the new video and some of the images by comparing them with multiple prewar archive videos and photographs of the nursing home".[5] According to The Washington Post, "Our Donbas, a campaign group allied with the LPR, previously published photographs and a video package that showed select areas of damage to the nursing home and stated that more than 60 people were killed there. The group’s video footage and images, which were also verified[citation needed] by The Post, did not show any bodies or weaponry."[5] Ukraine’s prosecutor general reported preliminary findings that matched Haidai’s account; his office announced war crimes charges against Russia for the attack.[5] The area was under Russian control, and Ukrainian investigators had been unable to access the site.[5] On 29 June the OHCHR published a report on the situation of human rights in Ukraine disclosing more information on the attack.[1] According to the report, Ukraine’s armed forces bear a significant responsibility for what happened because "a few days before the March 11 attack, Ukrainian soldiers took up positions inside the nursing home, effectively making the building a target."[8][3][2] See also[edit] War crimes in the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine References[edit] ^ a b c d e f g h The situation of human rights in Ukraine in the context of the armed attack by the Russian Federation, 24 February to 15 May 2022 (Report). OHCHR. 29 June 2022. para. 35-36. Retrieved 11 July 2022. ^ a b c d "Ukraine partly responsible for attack on nursing home, UN says". ABC News. 10 July 2022. Retrieved 11 July 2022. ^ a b c d Lardner, Richard; Dupuy, Beatrice (9 July 2022). "UN says Ukraine stationed troops in nursing home, bears some blame for March attack". The Times of Israel. Retrieved 11 July 2022. ^ a b c d "У Кремінній окупанти впритул розстріляли з танка будинок престарілих: 56 людей загинули". РБК-Украина (in Russian). Retrieved 11 July 2022. ^ a b c d e f "New images show burned bodies at ruined nursing home in Luhansk region". The Washington Post. 13 April 2022. ISSN 0190-8286. Archived from the original on 28 July 2022. Retrieved 11 July 2022. ^ Ball, Tom (20 March 2022). "Ukraine accuses Russia of killing 56 care home residents in Luhansk". The Times. ^ "Посольство США - про обстріл будинку для літніх у Кремінній: путін стріляє по слабких". Ukrinform (in Ukrainian). 22 March 2022. Retrieved 11 July 2022. ^ "U.N. Says Ukraine Bears Share of Blame for Nursing Home Attack". FRONTLINE. Retrieved 11 July 2022. v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Part of the Russo-Ukrainian War Overview General Outline Timeline Prelude (February – April 2022) (April – August 2022) (August – November 2022) (November 2022 – June 2023) (June 2023 – August 2023) (September 2023 – present) Aerial warfare Defense lines Foreign fighters Information war Naval warfare Legality Map Order of battle Peace negotiations Proposed no-fly zone Red lines Reparations Territorial control Women Prelude Reactions Disinformation Ukraine bioweapons conspiracy theory Ukraine and weapons of mass destruction 2021 Russia–United States summit 2021 Black Sea incident Belarus–European Union border crisis "On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians" Crimea Platform Zapad 2021 Ukraine cyberattacks Union Resolve 2022 Stanytsia Luhanska kindergarten bombing British–Polish–Ukrainian trilateral pact Evacuation of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Mobilization in Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR "Address concerning the events in Ukraine" "On conducting a special military operation" Background Dissolution of the Soviet Union 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine historical background Annexation of Crimea reactions War in Donbas 2022 timeline Minsk agreements humanitarian situation international recognition of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR P contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 68 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Stara_Krasnianka_care_house_attack responseCode 3 200 