ggiqeasooszetmuqsiequmssbonmrkbeneisugpc page 2653 Wikimedia Commons has media related to Year of birth missing. This is a maintenance category, used for maintenance of the Wikipedia project. It is not part of the encyclopedia and contains non-article pages, or groups articles by status rather than subject. Do not include this category in content categories. This is a hidden category. It is not shown on its member pages, unless the corresponding user preference (appearance → show hidden categories) is set. This category is for individuals whose year of birth has not been indicated in their biography. It is specifically designed to list the names of historically recent people who are no longer alive, as well as those in Category:Possibly living people. For individuals in Category:Living people, please use Category:Year of birth missing (living people). For individuals whose period of activity occurred before the second half of the 19th century and whose complete vital statistics will in most cases likely never be known, please use Category:Year of birth unknown. If the decade/century the individual was born is known, please prefer using XXXXs/XXth-century births instead. This category is intended to be mutually exclusive with its living people subcategory, and with Category:Date of birth missing (and its living people subcategory) as well as Category:Year of birth unknown. Related categories[edit] Category:Year of birth missing Category:Year of birth missing (living people) Category:Year of birth unknown Category:Date of birth missing Category:Date of birth missing (living people) Category:Place of birth missing Category:Place of birth missing (living people) Category:Place of birth unknown Category:Year of death missing Category:Year of death unknown Category:Date of death missing Category:Date of death unknown Category:Place of death missing Category:Place of death unknown See also[edit] Category:Living people Category:Possibly living people Category:Missing people Category:Dead people Category:Missing middle or first names Contents: Top 0–9 A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z * # 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 • A Aa Ae Aj Ao At • B Ba Be Bj Bo Bt • C Ca Ce Cj Co Ct • D Da De Dj Do Dt • E Ea Ee Ej Eo Et • F Fa Fe Fj Fo Ft • G Ga Ge Gj Go Gt • H Ha He Hj Ho Ht • I Ia Ie Ij Io It • J Ja Je Jj Jo Jt • K Ka Ke Kj Ko Kt • L La Le Lj Lo Lt • M Ma Me Mj Mo Mt • N Na Ne Nj No Nt • O Oa Oe Oj Oo Ot • P Pa Pe Pj Po Pt • Q Qa Qe Qj Qo Qt • R Ra Re Rj Ro Rt • S Sa Se Sj So St • T Ta Te Tj To Tt • U Ua Ue Uj Uo Ut • V Va Ve Vj Vo Vt • W Wa We Wj Wo Wt • X Xa Xe Xj Xo Xt • Y Ya Ye Yj Yo Yt • Z Za Ze Zj Zo Zt contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 64 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Category:Year_of_birth_missing responseCode 3 200 