ggnigqtcbmdahexmuiumfakohqeaugimvoumyceo length 6 642425 page 10024 This article is of interest to the following WikiProjects: Vital articles: Level 4 / People C‑class Gottlob Frege has been listed as a level-4 vital article in People. If you can improve it, please do.Vital articlesWikipedia:WikiProject Vital articlesTemplate:Vital articlevital articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Biography: Science and Academia C‑class Biography portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Biography, a collaborative effort to create, develop and organize Wikipedia's articles about people. All interested editors are invited to join the project and contribute to the discussion. For instructions on how to use this banner, please refer to the documentation.BiographyWikipedia:WikiProject BiographyTemplate:WikiProject Biographybiography articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. This article is supported by the science and academia work group. Germany C‑class Low‑importance Germany portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Germany, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Germany on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.GermanyWikipedia:WikiProject GermanyTemplate:WikiProject GermanyGermany articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale. Philosophy: Philosophers / Logic / Language / Analytic / Contemporary C‑class High‑importance Philosophy portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Philosophy, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of content related to philosophy on Wikipedia. If you would like to support the project, please visit the project page, where you can get more details on how you can help, and where you can join the general discussion about philosophy content on Wikipedia.PhilosophyWikipedia:WikiProject PhilosophyTemplate:WikiProject PhilosophyPhilosophy articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. High This article has been rated as High-importance on the project's importance scale. Associated task forces: / Philosophers Logic Philosophy of language Analytic philosophy Contemporary philosophy Linguistics: Philosophy of language C‑class Low‑importance Linguistics portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Linguistics, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of linguistics on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.LinguisticsWikipedia:WikiProject LinguisticsTemplate:WikiProject LinguisticsLinguistics articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale. This article is supported by Philosophy of language task force. Mathematics C‑class High‑priority Mathematics portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Mathematics, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of mathematics on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.MathematicsWikipedia:WikiProject MathematicsTemplate:WikiProject Mathematicsmathematics articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. High This article has been rated as High-priority on the project's priority scale. Cognitive science C‑class (inactive) This article is within the scope of WikiProject Cognitive science, a project which is currently considered to be inactive.Cognitive scienceWikipedia:WikiProject Cognitive scienceTemplate:WikiProject Cognitive scienceCognitive science articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. One Pupil of Note??[edit] What about Gershom Scholem? [1] References ^ Scholem, Gershom. (Zohn, Harry trans) Walter Benjamin. 1981 Jewish Publication Society of America pp. 48-9 Logicist about arithmetic not geometry[edit] I changed "Frege was the first major proponent of logicism- the view that mathematics is reducible to logic.". This can be misleading because Frege only held the logicist view with respect to arithmetic and analysis. He believed that geometry is synthetic a priori and hence not a part of logic. Also, though a lot will depend on how one understands "logicism", Dedekind was an earlier proponent of the view. boole?[edit] How is the work of Gottlob Frege related to that of George Boole? --Hirzel 03:06 15 Jun 2003 (UTC) You could say that Frege's work was later, was research rather than exposition, was deeper as an enquiry into language. In fact there is no serious intellectual connection, though obviously there might be some comparison in the use of algbra-style notations. User:Charles Matthews As I know, Boole mostly worked on the theory of classes in logic, Frege was involved rather in the theories of first-order and second-order languages. It's a more general theory, because class theory is a logical theory, the theories of logical languages are metalogical theories (in a particular, relative meaning of metalogics). These statements are a bit inexact, but I can't explain it detail, cause English is not my original language, however it is true the relation between Boole and Frege is a quite neglected area in the Frege-research. I have no sources about it and I think even if some exists so they are unpopular (f.e. not foundable in internet or in public libraries). Gubbubu 20:37, 6 Aug 2004 (UTC) Frege wrote two papers comparing his Begriffschrift with Boole's work. They are located in the Posthumous writings. Jamie Tappenden has written a paper on fruitful concepts in Frege that contains a discussion of Frege's critique of Boole's logical calculus. Comments, questions and quibbles 25-aug-2004[edit] ...such as the use of quantification... Common logician's error here: in normal english phrases like "two horses", two is a quantifier: no need for variables, bound or otherwise, to have quantification. Frege's contribution was the way he expressed quantification by means of variables; he did not invent quantification itself. Frege was the first to devise an axiomatization of propositional logic and of predicate logic. Frege did not create a separate theory of propositional logic, as the above suggests, and actually it is an achievement of Frege's to combine propositional connectives and quantifiers in one calculus. In fact, the formalisation of predicate logic took almost another 60 years to complete, with the publication of Hilbert and Ackermann's book in 1928. Ludwig Wittgenstein and Edmund Husserl were among the other philosophical notables strongly influenced by Frege. With Wittgenstein this is undeniable (although I think the sentence goes better elsewhere), but just how important an influence was Frege on Husserl. Husserl first agrees with Frege's objections, and then goes on to change his mind about it. That Husserl had an important correspondence is clear, but strong influence I think is going too far. Nice article, though: I was surprised by how many things I learned reading it. ---- Charles Stewart 22:30, 25 Aug 2004 (UTC) Failure of logicist programme[edit] The article says: Frege was the first major proponent of logicism -- the view that mathematics is reducible to logic. ... Russell discovered the paradox which bears his name, and that the axioms of the Grundgesetze led to this contradiction; he wrote to Frege, who acknowledged the contradiction in an appendix to volume two of the Grundgesetze, noting what he perceived to be the faulty axiom. Frege never did manage to amend his axioms to his satisfaction, however; and after Frege's death, Kurt Gödel's incompleteness theorems showed that Frege's logicist program was impossible. This strongly suggests that logicism was a failure. But I don't think that is correct; it seems to me that Frege's program was a success. Mathematicians still view set theory and logic, as set forth by Frege, to be the proper foundations for mathematics. It's only in recent years that an alternative, in the form of category theory, has appeared. Mathematicians do not view logicist set theory as a proper foundation for mathematics. Logicist set theory, at least as I see it, was fairly definitively refuted by the Russell paradox. We do not consider sets to be a logical notion, identified with definable properties of which they are extensions, but as a mathematical notion--collections of objects, and at the same time objects themselves. --Trovatore 06:55, 27 July 2005 (UTC)Reply[reply] I think I probably misunderstood what "logicist" means. Thanks for correcting me. I will do more research and try to corectly understand the situation. -- Dominus 01:32, 22 September 2005 (UTC)Reply[reply] The Russell paradox was satisfactorily resolved by Russell and Whitehead's theory of types and later by Zermelo's work on the axiom of foundation. It is not a serious hindrance today. You can't get rid of a paradox by adding an axiom. What Zermelo did was to provide a formal point of reference for the notion of sets as collections of objects rather than as extensions of properties (this was made more explicit by von Neumann, I think). That's the polar opposite of logicism. --Trovatore 06:55, 27 July 2005 (UTC)Reply[reply] I didn't say it was resolved by the axiom; I said it was resolved by Zermelo's work. -- Dominus 18:52, 21 September 2005 (UTC)Reply[reply] Point taken. It addresses only the smallest part of my remarks, though. --Trovatore 18:55, 21 September 2005 (UTC)Reply[reply] The remark about Gödel's incompleteness theorems is a non-sequitur. The incompleteness theorems show that there can be no formal axiomatization of all of mathematics. This no more invalida contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:Gottlob_Frege responseCode 3 200 