gktimsbgwczeimemlghoaodgmoykwacakqtmsefo length 6 374855 page 10008 Time period between 1 January 1901 and 31 December 2000 For other uses, see 20th century (disambiguation). Millennium 2nd millennium Centuries 19th century 20th century 21st century Timelines 19th century 20th century 21st century State leaders 19th century 20th century 21st century Decades 1900s 1910s 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s Categories: Births – Deaths Establishments – Disestablishments v t e The Blue Marble, Earth as seen from Apollo 17 in December 1972. The photograph was taken by LMP Harrison Schmitt. The second half of the 20th century saw humanity's first space exploration. The 20th century began on 1 January 1901 (MCMI), and ended on 31 December 2000 (MM). It was the last century of the 2nd millennium and was marked by new models of scientific understanding, unprecedented scopes of warfare, new modes of communication that would operate at nearly instant speeds, and new forms of art and entertainment. The 20th century was dominated by significant geopolitical events that reshaped the political and social structure of the globe: World War I, the Spanish flu pandemic, World War II and the Cold War. Unprecedented advances in science and technology defined the modern era, including the advent of nuclear weapons and nuclear power, space exploration, the shift from analog to digital computing and the continuing advancement of transportation, including powered flight and the automobile. The Earth's sixth mass extinction event, the Holocene extinction, continued, and human conservation efforts increased. Major themes of the century include decolonization, nationalism, globalization and new forms of intergovernmental organizations. Cultural homogenization began through developments in emerging transportation and information and communications technology. Poverty was reduced and the century saw rising standards of living, world population growth, awareness of environmental degradation and ecological extinction.[1][2] Automobiles, airplanes and home appliances became common, and video and audio recording saw mass adoption. Great advances in electricity generation and telecommunications allowed for near-instantaneous worldwide communication, ultimately leading to the Internet. Meanwhile, advances in medical technology resulted in the near-eradication and eradication of many infectious diseases, as well as opening the avenue of biological genetic engineering. The conclusion of World War I and the resulting Treaty of Versailles saw the United Kingdom, France, Italy, the United States and Japan as the main arbiters of the new world order. Germany returned as a great power in 1933, when the Nazi Party replaced the Weimar Republic as the new government of Germany. In 1945, Nazi Germany officially surrendered and the country was divided in two (the capitalist West Germany and the socialist East Germany, only reuniting at the end of the century). The end of World War II saw the United States, France, United Kingdom, Soviet Union and the Republic of China emerging as the primary victors. Political pressures from the United States, the Soviet Union, and the United Nations led France and the United Kingdom to withdraw from Egypt during the Suez Crisis. The episode demonstrated to the world that the United Kingdom and France had ceased to be global superpowers. The repercussions of the World Wars, the Cold War, and globalization crafted a world where people were more united than any previous time in human history, as exemplified by the establishment of international law, international aid and the United Nations. The Marshall Plan—which spent US$13 billion ($110 billion in 2021 dollars)[3] to rebuild the economies of post-war nations—launched "Pax Americana". Throughout the latter half of the 20th century, the rivalry between the United States and the Soviet Union created enormous tensions around the world which manifested in various armed proxy regional conflicts and the omnipresent danger of nuclear proliferation. The dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 after the revolutions of 1989 resulted in the United States emerging as the world's sole remaining superpower. China began rising rapidly as an economic and geopolitical power after the USSR's collapse. It took over 200,000 years of modern human history and 6 million years of human evolution for the world's population to reach 1 billion in 1804.[4] By 1927, the world population had reached an estimated 2 billion, and by late 2000, it had reached 6 billion, with over half of that in East, South and Southeast Asia.[5][6][7] Global literacy averaged 80%.[when?] Penicillin and other medical breakthroughs, combined with the World Health Organization's global vaccination campaigns, yielded unprecedented results, helping to eradicate smallpox and other diseases responsible for more human deaths than all wars and natural disasters combined; smallpox now only existed in labs.[8][9] Machines came to be used in all areas of production, feeding increasingly intricate supply chains that allowed humankind for the first time to be constrained not by how much it could produce, but by consumption. Trade improvements greatly expanded upon the limited set of food-producing techniques used since the Neolithic period, multiplying the diversity of foods available and boosting the quality of human nutrition. Until the early 19th century, life expectancy from birth was about thirty in most populations; global lifespan averages exceeded 40 years for the first time in history, with over half achieving 70 or more years (three decades longer than a century earlier).[10] Overview[edit] Main article: 20th-century events For a chronological guide, see Timeline of the 20th century. Map of the British Empire (as of 1910). At its height, it was the largest empire in history. Chronological history[edit] The 20th century began on 1 January 1901,[11] and ended on 31 December 2000.[12] It was the last century of the 2nd millennium. Unlike most century years, the year 2000 was a leap year, and the second century leap year in the Gregorian calendar after 1600. The century had the first global-scale total wars between world powers across continents and oceans in World War I and World War II. Nationalism became a major political issue in the world in the 20th century, acknowledged in international law along with the right of nations to self-determination, official decolonization in the mid-century, and related regional conflicts. The century saw a major shift in the way that many people lived, with changes in politics, ideology, economics, society, culture, science, technology, and medicine. The 20th century may have seen more technological and scientific progress than all the other centuries combined since the dawn of civilization. Terms like nationalism, globalism, environmentalism, ideology, world war, genocide, and nuclear war entered common usage. Scientific discoveries, such as the theory of relativity and quantum physics, profoundly changed the foundational models of physical science, forcing scientists to realize that the universe was more complex than previously believed, and dashing the hopes (or fears) at the end of the 19th century that the last few details of scientific knowledge were about to be filled in. It was a century that started with horses, simple automobiles, and freighters but ended with high-speed rail, cruise ships, global commercial air travel and the Space Shuttle. Horses and other pack animals, every society's basic form of personal transportation for thousands of years, were replaced by automobiles and buses within a few decades. These developments were made possible by the exploitation of fossil fuel resources, which offered energy in an easily portable form, but also caused concern about pollution and long-term impact on the environment. Humans explored space for the first time, taking their first footsteps on the Moon. World powers and empires in 1914, just before the First World War. Mass media, telecommunications, and information technology (especially computers, paperback books, public education, and the Internet) made the world's knowledge more widely available. Public health improvements led to global life expectancy increasing from 35 years to 65 years. Rapid technological advancements, however, also allowed warfare to reach unprecedented levels of destruction. World War II alone killed over 60 million people, while nuclear weapons gave humankind the means to annihilate itself in a short time. However, these same wars resulted in the destruction of the imperial system. For the first time in human history, empires and their wars of expansion and colonization ceased to be a factor in international affairs, resulting in a far more globalized and cooperative world. The last time major powers clashed openly was in 1945, and since then, violence has seen an unprecedented decline.[13] The world also became more culturally homogenized than ever with developments in transportation and communications technology, popular music and other influences of Western culture, international corporations, and what was arguably a truly global economy by the end of the 20th century. Summary[edit] At the beginning of the period, the British Empire was the world's most powerful nation,[14] having acted as the world's policeman for the past century. Technological advancements during World War I changed the way war was fought, as new inventions such as tanks, chemical weapons, and aircraft modified tactics and strategy. After more than four years of trench warfare in Western Europe, and up to 22 million dead, the powers that had formed the Triple Entente (France, Britain, and Russia, later replaced by the United States and joined by Italy and Romania) emerged victorious over the Central Powers (Germany, Austria-Hungary, the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria). In addition to annexing many of the colonial possessions of the vanquished states, the Triple Entente exacted punitive restitut contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/20th_century responseCode 3 200 