gkwcecwclkjaueqgvidaygdejmimmqwergigfglg length 6 367900 page 10085 Official or legally recognized title for a person or entity This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article appears to contradict the article Royal and noble styles. Please discuss at the talk page and do not remove this message until the contradictions are resolved. (June 2013) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Style" form of address – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2008) (template removal help) (template removal help) A style of office or form of address, also called manner of address, is an official or legally recognized form of address for a person or other entity (such as a government or company), and may often be used in conjunction with a personal title.[1][2] A style, by tradition or law, precedes a reference to a person who holds a post or political office, and is sometimes used to refer to the office itself. An honorific can also be awarded to an individual in a personal capacity. Such styles are particularly associated with monarchies, where they may be used by a wife of an office holder or of a prince of the blood, for the duration of their marriage. They are also almost universally used for presidents in republics and in many countries for members of legislative bodies, higher-ranking judges, and senior constitutional office holders. Leading religious figures also have styles. Examples[edit] Academia[edit] Traditional forms of address at German-speaking universities: His/Her Magnificence – rector (president) of a university His/Her Notability (Seine Spektabilität; Professors have the privilege to use the Latin Spectabilis) – dean of a faculty Traditional forms of address at Dutch-speaking universities: His/Her Great Honour (Edelgrootachtbare heer/vrouwe) – rector magnificus (president) of a university Highly Learned Sir/Madam (Hooggeleerde heer/vrouwe) – professor or dean of a faculty Well (Noble) Very Learned Sir/Madam (Weledelzeergeleerde heer/vrouwe) – a doctor Well (Noble) Learned Sir/Madam (De weledelgeleerde heer/vrouwe) – a doctorandus Well (Noble) Strictly Sir/Madam (De weledelgestrenge heer/vrouwe) – a master in laws (meester in de rechten) or a university engineer (ingenieur) Traditional forms of address at Italian-speaking universities: Magnificent Rector (magnifico rettore) – rector (president, chancellor) of a university Amplified Headmaster (amplissimo preside) – dean of a faculty (now uncommon) Illustrious/Enlightened Professor (chiarissimo professore) – a full professor Government[edit] Diplomats[edit] His Most Reverend Excellency (abbreviation His Most Rev. Ex., oral address Your Excellency) – apostolic nuncios, because their rank is equal to that of an ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary, and they are simultaneously higher prelates. His/Her Excellency (abbreviation HE, oral address Your Excellency) – most ambassadors, high commissioners and permanent representatives to international organizations. Occasionally a different form of address is used domestically with the international equivalent of Excellency being used in all other cases. Judiciaries[edit] His/Her Honour Judge X Abbreviation HHJ X, oral address Your Honour – Circuit judges in England and Wales. The Honourable Mr./Ms. Justice X (abbreviation X J, referential His Lordship/Her Ladyship; oral address My Lord/Lady or Your Lordship/Your Ladyship) – Judges of the High Court of Justice of England and Wales. My Lord/Your Honour is used to address judiciary representatives in India. The Honorable (abbreviation The Hon., oral address Your Honor) – Judges and justices in the United States. Oral address Your Honour – All courts in Australia.[3] The Right Honourable Lord/Lady Justice X (abbreviation X LJ) – Judges of the Court of Appeal of England and Wales. Oral address Your Excellency – Judges of the International Court of Justice. Oral address Your Worship – All courts in Australia (obsolete). The Lord/Lady/Baroness[4] X (abbreviated to Lord/Lady/Baroness X, referred to as His Lordship/Her Ladyship, addressed orally as My Lord/My Lady) – Judges in the High Court of Justiciary and the Court of Session in Scotland, and the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom. Oral address Your Worship – Justices of the peace (magistrates) in the United Kingdom, usually by solicitors. Monarchies[edit] Part of the Politics series Monarchy Central concepts Monarch Monarchism Divine right of kings Mandate of Heaven Royal prerogative Types Abdication system Absolute Chinese Legalist Composite Constitutional Crowned republic Diarchy Dual Elective Emirate Ethnarch Federal Hereditary Khanate Non-sovereign Pentarchy Personal union Popular Principality Regency Coregency Self-proclaimed Signoria Tetrarch Triarchy Universal Philosophy Philosophers Aquinas Dante Bodin Bellarmine Filmer Hobbes Bossuet Maistre Bonald Chateaubriand Novalis Balzac Crétineau-Joly Gogol Cortés Balmes Kierkegaard Dostoevsky Youwei Maurras Bainville Seca Evola Kuehnelt-Leddihn Bogdanor Scruton Hoppe Works Considerations on France Democracy: The God That Failed Leviathan Monarchia Patriarcha Les Six livres de la République Politicians Mazarin Pius VI Ruffo Consalvi Plessis Metternich Villèle Polignac Decazes Disraeli Cortés Castillo Bismarck Mella Maurras Metaxas Churchill Renouvin Zhirinovsky Popescu-Tăriceanu Zourabichvili History Birth of the Roman Empire Magna Carta Foundation of the Ottoman Empire Tsarist autocracy Birth of the Dutch Republic Glorious Revolution French Revolution Establishment of the Dutch monarchy Trienio Liberal First French Empire Liberal Wars Second French Empire Unification of Italy Meiji Restoration Austro-Hungarian Compromise German unification 5 October 1910 Revolution Proclamation of the Republic in Brazil Chinese Revolution Russian Revolution Siamese revolution of 1932 Birth of the Italian Republic Spanish transition to democracy Iranian Revolution Modern Cambodia Nepalese Civil War Polity Aristocracy Autocracy Oligarchy Administration Court Appointment Great Officers Household Retinue Camarilla Courtier Privy council Crown Council Makhzen Riksråd Related ideologies Conservatism Authoritarian Traditionalist Despotism Enlightened absolutism Legitimism Orléanism Royalism Ultra Toryism High Related topics Criticism Dynasty Lists Family Descent Family trees Illegitimate Figurehead Kingmaker List of monarchies Current Former Non-sovereign Nobility Peerage Realm Philosopher king Pretender List Rank Realm Empire Reich Regicide Regnal number Sovereign Style Succession Anti-king Crisis Interregnum Rebellion War Usurper Politics portal v t e Sire (oral address first Your Majesty and then Sire; for a queen first Your Majesty and then Ma'am) – Reigning kings in the United Kingdom and in Belgium. It has also been used in France, Italy, Germany, Portugal, Sweden and Spain. His/Her Imperial Majesty (abbreviation HIM, oral address Your Imperial Majesty) – Emperors and empresses. Formerly, for example, HIM the Shah of Iran. In modern times, the Emperor of Japan more often uses the simpler style of "Majesty".[citation needed] His/Her Imperial and Royal Majesty (abbreviation HI&RM, oral address Your Imperial and Royal Majesty) – Until 1918, the rulers of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, who were Emperors/Empresses of Austria while also Kings/Queens of Hungary, and the German emperors/empresses, who were simultaneously Kings/Queens of Prussia. His/Her Apostolic Majesty (abbreviation HAM, oral address Your Apostolic Majesty) – the King of Hungary, usually styled Imperial Majesty or Imperial and Royal Majesty as Emperor of Austria and King of Hungary, also sometimes Imperial and Royal Apostolic Majesty. His/Her Britannic Majesty – the British monarch (not usual); used as a formal and official term in diplomacy, international law, and international relations, e.g. in British passports. His/Her Most Gracious Majesty – an elaborate version of His/Her Majesty in the United Kingdom, only used in the most formal of occasions. His/Her Most Excellent Majesty – another elaborate version of His/Her Majesty in the United Kingdom, mainly used in Acts of Parliament. His/Her Catholic Majesty (abbreviation HCM, oral address Your Catholic Majesty) – the Spanish monarch (not usual). His Most Christian Majesty – the King of France until 1790 and from 1815 to 1830. His/Her Most Faithful Majesty (abbreviation HFM, oral address Your Faithful Majesty) – the King of Portugal until deposed in 1910. His/Her Majesty (abbreviation HM, oral address Your Majesty) – kings, queens and some sultans. For example, HM King Charles III, HM King Mohammed VI or HM King Willem-Alexander. His/Her Imperial Highness (abbreviation HIH, oral address Your Imperial Highness) – members of an imperial house. Currently used by the Imperial House of Japan. His/Her Imperial and Royal Highness (abbreviation HI&RH, oral address Your Imperial and Royal Highness) – formerly, archdukes of the House of Habsburg, the German crown prince/princess and (post-monarchy) members of the deposed Brazilian Imperial Family; also some women entitled to imperial style by birth and to royal style by marriage (e.g., Grand Duchess Maria Alexandrovna of Russia, Duchess of Edinburgh). His/Her Royal Highness (abbreviation HRH, oral address Your Royal Highness) – some monarchs, members of a royal family (other than monarchs, queens consort and queens dowager); grand dukes/duchesses who have reigned (but not those grand dukes who were cadets of the former Russian Imperial Family), consorts of grand dukes, grand ducal heirs apparent and, in Luxembourg, all dynastic male-line cadets; British princes, their dynastic wives (including the princes consort of queens Victoria and Elizabeth II), sons, daughters, patrilineal grandsons and granddaughters of Ib contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Style_(form_of_address) responseCode 3 200 