gorkqiqixqzooangkguqtonklimcpqeeqqlklaki length 5 90329 page 2219 Travis Head The Cricket World Cup concludes with Australia defeating India in the final (Player of the Match Travis Head pictured). Pedro Sánchez is invested as Prime Minister of Spain, after proposing amnesty for Catalan separatists and then receiving support from them. In the Myanmar civil war, opposition forces capture multiple cities in a major offensive against the ruling military junta. Ongoing: Israel–Hamas war Russian invasion of Ukraine timeline War in Sudan Recent deaths: Rosalynn Carter Claude Kahn A. S. Byatt Worta McCaskill-Stevens Subrata Roy Tengiz Kitovani Nominate an article Template documentation[view] [edit] [history] [purge] In the news toolbox Error reports Nominations (Archives) Discussion General criteria Death criteria Recurring items Admin guide Image protection Current events portal v t e Shortcut T:ITN For a talk-page template to indicate that a Wikipedia page has been mentioned by a media organisation, see Template:Press. "In the news" mentions and links to entries of timely interest – encyclopedia articles that have been updated to reflect an important current event – rather than conventional news items. To prevent vandalism on the Main Page, it is a permanently protected template. See Wikipedia:In the news for more details. See an error? Please note it on Wikipedia:Main Page/Errors for administrator assistance. The template accepts one parameter: adding |nocurrenteventslink=1 removes the link to Portal:Current events. This is used on the current events page to hide the link there. Admins: After updating please purge the cache of the Main Page so that the updated version appears. In terms of Main Page balance, right now we're configured for widescreen monitors, which it appears most editors use. Non-widescreen users, please do not change the balance even if it looks off on your monitor. Click here to purge the template's cache manually, if it does not appear to be updating on the Main Page after you edit it. The above documentation is transcluded from Template:In the news/doc. (edit | history) Editors can experiment in this template's sandbox (edit | diff) and testcases (edit) pages. Add categories to the /doc subpage. Subpages of this template. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 54 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Template:In_the_news responseCode 3 200 