gozcvcwiumygbmoojassoadkrcegleemugmcqqco length 6 100044 page 7207 New Zealand supermarket chain part of Foodstuffs Four Square Four Square supermarket in Murchison Type Subsidiary Founded 1924; 99 years ago (1924) Headquarters Auckland , New Zealand Number of locations 224 Parent Foodstuffs Website foursquare.co.nz Four Square is a chain of supermarkets in New Zealand that was founded by John Heaton Barker.[1] It has 230 stores throughout New Zealand, mostly in small towns.[2] Some Four Square supermarkets previously operated in Australia under the name Friendly Grocer. History[edit] Four Square emerged as a household name in the 1920s out of the Foodstuffs grocery buying co-operative, whose founder, John Heaton Barker, became concerned at the manner in which the activities of the grocery chain stores of the day were making life difficult for independent grocers in Auckland. On 6 July 1922, Heaton Barker called together members of the Auckland Master Grocers Association and discussed their plans for forming a cooperative buying group of independent grocers. On 1 April 1925, this buying group registered a company called Foodstuffs Ltd, which was the first of three regional cooperatives based in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.[3] The name Four Square emerged when Heaton Barker, while talking on the telephone to one of the buying group members on 4 July 1924, drew a square around the 4 of the date on his calendar. He considered this to be a suitable name for the buying group, stating that "they would stand ’Four Square’ to all the winds that blew".[4] By the end of 1924 products were appearing under the Four Square name, and by 1929 discussions were underway on the use of a common branding on stores. Early versions of the Four Square sign were produced in the form of red and gold hand painted glass panels for display in members’ stores. The "Mr 4 Square" symbol, also known as "Cheeky Charlie",[5] was developed in the 1950s. The image is associated with the art of New Zealand artist Dick Frizzell, who has used the iconic character in many of his works. In February 1948, in Onehunga, Phil Barker (the son of the founder of the group) and Ray McGregor opened Four Square's – and the country's – first self-service grocery store (where shoppers take groceries off the shelf, rather than an attendant doing it for them), and this format soon became the norm for grocery retailing in New Zealand.[citation needed] Stores[edit] There are 165 Four Square stores on the North Island, including 23 in Northland, 21 in Auckland, six on the Coromandel Peninsula, 18 in the rest of the Waikato Region, 20 in Bay of Plenty, 5 in the Gisborne District, 15 in the Hawke's Bay Region, 15 in Taranaki, 20 in Manawatū-Whanganui and 19 in the Wellington Region.[2] There are 60 Four Square stores on the South Island and Stewart Island, including six in Nelson and Tasman, three in Marlborough, four on the West Coast, 16 in Canterbury, 18 in Otago and 12 in Southland.[2] Marketing[edit] Four Square Man[edit] The Four Square Man, also known as Cheeky Charlie, is the mascot of the Four Square.[3][6] It was created in the 1950s by the advertising department of Foodstuffs. Initially only appearing in newspapers and posters, it later made appearance in every Four Square store.[3][7] Since the 1980s, the Four Square Man has been designed by Dick Frizzell.[3] He did photo essays about various objects and shops, such as his local butcher, baker, panel beater, and the Four Square in Kingsland. Frizzell made billboards with him as the Four Square Man, which lead Foodstuffs to contact him with intellectual property concerns. Foodstuffs later commissioned Frizzel to paint the character, and he would receive a copyright commission despite the fact that Frizzell did not invent the character.[6] References[edit] ^ Milton-Tee, Ann. "Harry Heaton Barker". Dictionary of New Zealand Biography. Ministry for Culture and Heritage. Retrieved 31 December 2011. ^ a b c "Four Square". foursquare.co.nz. Foodstuffs. ^ a b c d "History | Four Square". Retrieved 26 March 2015. ^ "Mr Four Square: a kiwiana nostalgia trip". Retrieved 2 March 2010. ^ "Cheeky Charlie". Retrieved 21 June 2017. ^ a b McDonald, Dani (23 November 2017). "How We Made: Dick Frizzell's Four Square Man". Stuff. Retrieved 19 November 2023. ^ "The Four Square man". Te Ara: The Encyclopedia of New Zealand. Retrieved 19 November 2023. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Four Square supermarkets. Four Square website Portals: Supermarkets New Zealand v t e Retailers in New Zealand List of retailers - List of shopping centres Supermarkets and grocery 3 Guys / Gubays Big Fresh Countdown Countdown Metro Foodtown Four Square FreshChoice New World Night 'n Day Pak'nSave Price Chopper SuperValue The Warehouse Woolworths Hardware, building and garden Bunnings Warehouse Carters ColourPlus Guthrie Bowron ITM Kings Plant Barn Lightingplus Mitre 10 NZ Safety Blackwoods Palmers Garden Centre PlaceMakers Resene ColorShop Fuel Allied Petroleum BP Caltex Challenge GAS Gull Mobil NPD Waitomo Z Energy Pharmaceutical Body Shop Chemist Warehouse Life Pharmacy Unichem Department stores Arthur Barnett Ballantynes D.I.C. David Jones DEKA EziBuy Farmers Haywrights H & J Smith Kirkcaldie & Stains Kmart Australia Smith & Caughey's The Warehouse Electrical 2degrees Bond and Bond EB Games Harvey Norman Hill and Stewart JB Hi-Fi Noel Leeming One NZ Smiths City Spark Clothing, footwear and accessories Athlete's Foot Barkers Bendon Lingerie Connor Cotton On Cotton On Body Cotton On Kids Country Road Dotti Dr. Martens Factorie Foot Locker Glassons Goldmark Hallenstein Brothers Hannahs H&M Huffer Hype DC Jacqui E Jay Jays Johnny Bigg Just Jeans Maher Shoes Max Fashions Merchant 1948 Mi Piaci Michael Hill Jeweller Nike, Inc. NOVO Shoes Number One Shoes Partridge Jewellers Pascoes Peter Alexander Platypus Shoes Portmans Postie Rivers R. M. Williams Rodd & Gunn Rubi Shoe Clinic Smith's Sports Shoes Stewart Dawsons Strandbags SUBTYPE Sunglass Hut Supré Tarocash Timberland Under Armour Walker & Hall Witchery yd. Zara Motor vehicles and parts Repco Supercheap Auto Recreational goods Borders Icebreaker JB Hi-Fi JD Sports Kathmandu Macpac Mountain Designs Nike Paper Plus R&R Sport Rebel Sport Smiggle Stirling Sports Take Note Torpedo7 Toy World Typo Under Armour Unity Books Warehouse Stationery Whitcoulls Furniture, floor, houseware and textile Briscoes Freedom Furniture Harvey Norman Lincraft Living & Giving Nick Scali Furniture Nood Furniture Smiths City Spotlight Stevens Sunny's Variety Stores Liquor Big Barrel Birds Liquorsave Black Bull Liquor The Bottle O Duffy & Finn's Glengarry Henry's Beer, Wine & Spirits Liquor Centre Liquor King Liquor Spot LiquorLand Merchants Liquor The Mill Super Liquor Thirsty Liquor The Trusts Village Wine & Spirits West Liquor Specialised food Bakers Delight Hospitality Boost Juice BurgerFuel Burger King Carl's Jr. Coffee Club Domino's Pizza Donut King Dunkin' Donuts Georgie Pie Hell Pizza Jesters Pies KFC Krispy Kreme Lord of the Fries Mad Mex Fresh Mexican Grill McDonald's Noodle Box Oporto Pie Face Pita Pit Pizza Hut Subway Taco Bell Texas Chicken Winner Winner Zambrero Defunct retailers in italics contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Four_Square_(supermarket) responseCode 3 200 