gqrmwinexcjodmoermhacaqkbeimksgmmokqjsyc length 6 261210 page 10002 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 30 April 2023 12:00, 30 April 2023 (UTC) Rutherford's Monument ... that the 56-foot-tall (17 m) monument (pictured) to the theologian Samuel Rutherford near his parish church in Anwoth was badly damaged by a lightning strike five years after its construction? ... that Americano Media wants to be "Fox News in Spanish"? ... that Joanna Cherry showed a printed copy of an Internet meme featuring Lily Hoshikawa during a UK parliamentary committee meeting? ... that 47-year-old Turkish para-karateka Oya Ekici won the bronze medal at the 2022 European Championships? ... that producers of The Simpsons have spoken about the importance of its LGBT characters in representation? ... that HMS Martin was part of the Grand Fleet of the Royal Navy in the First World War, but after the war was sold to be broken up? ... that the saying "give me the man and I will give you the case against him" is usually attributed to Soviet-era public figures such as Beria or Vyshinsky? ... that Ice Spice is Princess Diana? 00:00, 30 April 2023 (UTC) Canterbury Pioneer Women's Memorial ... that although it was a centennial project, the Canterbury Pioneer Women's Memorial (pictured) in New Zealand was opened 90 years after the region's organised settlement began? ... that Anne Cooke Reid founded the first Black summer theater in the United States? ... that Arthur Arndt's family was the largest known group of Jews to successfully hide in Germany during the Holocaust? ... that to prepare for her role in the television film Search for Grace, actress Lisa Hartman Black underwent hypnosis? ... that United States Air Force colonel Virgil K. Meroney flew two combat missions with his son before his son was killed in action in March 1969, during the Vietnam War? ... that Salar de Pajonales in Chile has been used as an analogue for environments on Mars? ... that in the same year, an Illinois radio station lost its station manager in a car crash and its advertising revenue to flooding? ... that Auto-GPT, an autonomous artificial-intelligence software agent, was used to create ChaosGPT, which has not yet achieved its goal of destroying humanity? 29 April 2023 12:00, 29 April 2023 (UTC) Reproduced fresco depicting Aulus Vibenna on the far right ... that according to Etruscan tradition Aulus Vibenna (depicted) helped Servius Tullius to oust the Roman king Lucius Tarquinius Priscus? ... that more than 100 traps were set to catch a single stoat on an otherwise predator-free island in Taiari / Chalky Inlet in 2022? ... that the Housatonic Railroad used to send 100,000 US quarts (95,000 litres) of milk to New York City per day? ... that Godwin Obasi has been described as "Africa's gift to the world of climate science"? ... that more than a decade after Edgar Wright assembled the cast of Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, he helped to convince them all to reprise their roles in an anime adaptation of the source material? ... that as part of Bahrainization, the Bahraini government prohibited foreigners from driving taxis? ... that delivering newspapers was how Garnett Wikoff became an Olympic runner? ... that Hot Gay Time Machine had two life-sized cut-outs of Beyoncé? 00:00, 29 April 2023 (UTC) Fictional tourism poster by NASA ... that the star TRAPPIST-1 has seven planets, several of which may have temperatures that would allow the existence of liquid water (artist's impression depicted)? ... that Fred Narganes is said to be the first Latino wrestler to win an amateur US national championship or to compete for an American university, and among the first Latino-American Olympians? ... that Weltdeutsch was a proposal for a German-based language by Nobel-Prize laureate and pacifist Wilhelm Ostwald, created in an episode of chauvinistic fervour? ... that Mira Bellwether's husband had already read her zine, Fucking Trans Women, years before he met her? ... that the publisher of the board game Destination faced financial trouble when a Harry Potter film was delayed? ... that the Ladies Musical Club brought Sergei Rachmaninoff, Marian Anderson, and Pablo Casals to perform in Seattle? ... that Mira, a Hong Kong YouTuber, was asked by the Korea Tourism Organization to be a spokeswoman for Michelin-starred restaurants one year after she started her channel? ... that one can change from doing 'sad girl music' to dissing your favorite rapper? 28 April 2023 12:00, 28 April 2023 (UTC) Drake ... that Drake (pictured) has the personal approval of U.S. president Barack Obama to portray him in a biopic if the opportunity came? ... that in the Forum of Augustus in Rome, elogia were hung on statues of commanders and Augustus's ancestors? ... that the pseudonymous manga artist Junichi Yamakawa never disclosed to his editor his legal name, address, or contact information? ... that either dog feces, or hen and pigeon manure, were used by tanners to produce a soft leather? ... that Drag Isn't Dangerous is a charitable telethon set to be hosted by numerous drag queens to oppose the Tennessee drag-ban bill? ... that Leopoldo Salazar Viniegra laid the foundation for the Reglamento Federal de Toxicomanias, which legalized psychoactive substances in Mexico in 1940? ... that the mainland portion of Lake of the Woods Provincial Park in northwestern Ontario, Canada, was deregulated as part of a First Nations land claim settlement? ... that Devin Futrell used a post to dodge a draft? 00:00, 28 April 2023 (UTC) Margery Jackson's court mantua ... that Carlisle miser Margery Jackson, who chose to live like a pauper, possessed a fine court mantua (pictured)? ... that The Steranko History of Comics has been described as the first piece of cultural analysis on American comic books? ... that Heinz Schwarz attended all CDU party conventions from the first ever in 1950 to 2020? ... that the Lewis and Clark Expedition documented the Ionia Volcano? ... that although he only had ten minutes to learn to play offensive lineman, college football player Jake Witt was able to successfully block against "the best defensive line" in the U.S.? ... that the Irish N53 road from Dundalk to Castleblayney has a 6-kilometre (3.7 mi) gap where it enters Northern Ireland? ... that Cambodia's first science-fiction film, Karmalink, combines Buddhist concepts of karma with themes of artificial intelligence? ... that Émile Aubrun flew circles around a golden virgin? 27 April 2023 12:00, 27 April 2023 (UTC) Hearst Castle ... that Hearst Castle (pictured) inspired Xanadu, the lavish mansion in the 1941 film Citizen Kane? ... that the Gouzenko Affair marked the beginning of the Cold War in Canada? ... that Sujudi had his election to the post of rector of the University of Indonesia overruled by the Indonesian government? ... that when Zenni Optical released a Super Bowl LIV advertisement, its website told a number of customers that eyeglasses deliveries would be delayed for weeks? ... that Burmese princess Myat Phaya Gyi was impregnated by a servant, gave up her royal privileges, and lived a life of poverty? ... that the soundtrack of The Last of Us features a song performed by Nick Offerman, who played a character in the series? ... that the government of Ethiopia's SNNP Region supported local governments calling for a referendum to secede from the region? ... that British designer Alexander McQueen constructed a dress made of clear pallet wrap for his Spring/Summer 1995 collection The Birds? 00:00, contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2023/April responseCode 3 200 