gshcqgcqwaxofgfmxmzohqccmgbckcgkfqfmuscq length 6 195908 page 10011 Wikipedia help page about authority control For editor information, see Wikipedia:Authority control. Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcut H:AC Readers' FAQ About Wikipedia Administration FAQs Assessing article quality Authority control Books Categories Censorship Copyright Disambiguation Images and multimedia ISBN Microformats Mobile access Offline access Navigation Other languages Page names Portals Searching Student help Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Readers' glossary Readers' index Reader's guide to Wikipedia v t e Authority control is a way of associating a unique identifier to articles on Wikipedia. This is useful to disambiguate different items with similar or identical headings, as well as establish a single standard title for an item that is commonly known by two or more titles. When used, authority control data links can be found near the bottom of Wikipedia pages, linking to bibliographical records on worldwide library catalogs. Authority control is often used in biographical articles because it is quite common for more than one person to share the same name. It is commonly used in other subject material as well. Authority control enables researchers to search more easily for pertinent information on the subject of an article, without needing to disambiguate the subject manually. For example, authority control is used on music articles so that the information in the article can be easily cross-referenced with popular databases. More generally, authority control is a method of creating and maintaining index terms for bibliographical material in a library catalog, similar to the Dewey Decimal System. The links produced by the authority control template on Wikipedia go to authority control data in worldwide library catalogs. As an example, the Wikipedia authority control information for Alexander Graham Bell looks like this: Authority control databases – Alexander Graham Bell International FAST ISNI VIAF WorldCat National Norway Chile Spain France BnF data Germany Italy Israel United States Japan Czech Republic Australia Greece Korea Netherlands Poland Portugal Vatican Academics CiNii Leopoldina Scopus Artists MusicBrainz ULAN People Deutsche Biographie Trove Other NARA SNAC IdRef The abbreviations in the box represent the following: International Standard Name Identifier (ISNI); Virtual International Authority File (VIAF); Library of Congress Control Number (LCCN); and Integrated Authority File (GND), Gemeinsame Normdatei in German. WorldCat is a global cooperative union catalog which itemizes the collections of 72,000 libraries in 170 countries and territories. Supported files Main page: Template:Authority control The following authority files are supported on the English Wikipedia: Identifier Section Wikidata property Appears as Auckland Art Gallery Artists P3372: Auckland Art Gallery artist ID Auckland ACM Digital Library Academics P864: ACM Digital Library author ID Association for Computing Machinery Australian Dictionary of Biography People P1907: Australian Dictionary of Biography ID Australia Academy of Arts, Berlin Artists P4114: ADK member ID ADK Admiralty number Geographic P3562: Admiralty number Admiralty A5274 Art Gallery of South Australia Artists P6804: Art Gallery of South Australia creator ID South Australia ARLHS lighthouse ID Geographic P2980: ARLHS lighthouse ID ARLHS Autores.uy People P2558: autores.uy ID Uruguay Remarks: autores.uy is an author's database, that focus on Uruguayan authors. It was created and maintained by the Uruguayan chapter of Creative Commons. It also provides access to digitized works of the authors in public domain. Australian Women's Register People P4186: Australian Women's Register ID Australian Women's Register Botanic Gardens Conservation International Geographic P5818: BGCI garden ID BGCI garden Norwegian Authority File: Persons and Corporate Bodies National P1015: NORAF ID Norway Remarks: BIBSYS is a supplier of library and information systems for all Norwegian university Libraries, the National Library of Norway, college libraries, and a number of research libraries and institutions. Bildindex der Kunst und Architektur Other P2092: Bildindex der Kunst und Architektur ID Bildindex Bayerisches Musiker-Lexikon Online [Wikidata] People P865: BMLO ID BMLO Collective Catalog of Bibliographic Authorities of Chile [Wikidata] National P1890: CCAB ID Chile BNE authority file National P950: Biblioteca Nacional de España ID Spain Remarks: National Library of Spain (BNE: Biblioteca Nacional de España) is a major public library, the largest in Spain. BnF authorities National P268: Bibliothèque nationale de France ID France Remarks: Authority data of people listed in the general catalogue of the National Library of France BnF authorities National P268: Bibliothèque nationale de France ID BnF data Catálogo de autoridades BNMM National P3788: BNMM authority ID Argentina International Plant Names Index Academics P428: botanist author abbreviation International Plant Names Index Remarks: Author citation (botany): standard form (official abbreviation) of a personal name for use in an author citation (only for names of algae, fungi and plants). Links to page at International Plant Names Index (IPNI). Biografisch Portaal People P651: Biografisch Portaal van Nederland ID Netherlands Remarks: Dutch project with material for 40,000 digitized biographies, including former colonies of the Netherlands. B.R.A.H.M.S. Artists P5226: BRAHMS artist ID BRAHMS Remarks: Identifier of an artist in the B.R.A.H.M.S. (Base Relationnelle d'Articles Hypertextes sur la Musique du 20e Siècle database), by the IRCAM B.R.A.H.M.S. Other P5302: BRAHMS work ID BRAHMS Remarks: Identifier for a musical work in the B.R.A.H.M.S. (Base Relationnelle d'Articles Hypertextes sur la Musique du 20e Siècle database) database, by the IRCAM Name and Title Authority File of Catalonia National P9984: CANTIC ID Catalonia Canadian Coastguard Lighthouse ID Geographic P3920: Canadian Coastguard Lighthouse ID CCG A1761 Remarks: Identifier from one of 4 volumes of List of Lights, Buoys and Fog Signals issued by the Canadian Coast Guard. NACSIS-CAT author ID [Wikidata] Academics P271: CiNii Books author ID CiNii Remarks: CiNii is a bibliographic database service for material in Japanese academic libraries. It is maintained by the National Institute of Informatics. Commonwealth War Graves Commission database People P1908: CWGC person ID Commonwealth War Graves Commission Dictionary of Australian Artists Artists P1707: DAAO ID Australian Artists Dansk Fyrliste Geographic P4038: Danish List of Lights and Fog signals ID Denmark 4500 Deutsche Bahn station code Other P8671: Deutsche Bahn station code Deutsche Bahn Remarks: Deutsche Bahn station code, identifier for train stations and other operating points used by Deutsche Bahn Dizionario Biografico degli Italiani People P1986: Treccani's Biographical Dictionary of Italian People ID Italian People dblp computer science bibliography Academics P2456: DBLP author ID DBLP Deutsche Synchronkartei People P11646: Deutsche Synchronkartei person ID Deutsche Synchronkartei Remarks: Online database of voice actors in film and television productions Dictionary of Irish Biography People P6829: Dictionary of Irish Biography ID Ireland The Stuttgart Database of Scientific Illustrators 1450–1950 Artists P2349: Stuttgart Database of Scientific Illustrators ID Scientific illustrators Deutsche Biographie People P7902: Deutsche Biographie (GND) ID Deutsche Biographie EBIDAT Geographic P9725: EBIDAT ID EBIDAT Remarks: Identifier for an entry in the castles inventory database EBIDAT Emmy Award Artists P8381: Emmys person ID Emmy Awards Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine Other P4613: Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine ID Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine EUTA theatre ID [Wikidata] Geographic P4535: EUTA theatre ID EUTA theatre EUTA person ID [Wikidata] People P4534: EUTA person ID EUTA Faceted Application of Subject Terminology International P2163: FAST ID FAST Finnish List of Lights [Wikidata] Geographic P4143: Finnish List of Lights ID Finland 7243 Find New Zealand Artists Artists P6792: Find NZ Artists ID New Zealand Artists GND ID National P227: GND ID Germany Remarks: Authority data on people, corporations and subjects from the German National Library (DNB) Google Scholar author ID [Wikidata] Academics P1960: Google Scholar author ID Google Scholar Grammy Awards artist ID Artists P7303: Grammy Awards artist ID Grammy Awards Global Volcanism Program Geographic P1886: Global Volcanism Program ID Global Volcanism Program Historical Dictionary of Switzerland Other P902: HDS ID Historical Dictionary of Switzerland Remarks: Historical Dictionary of Switzerland is an encyclopedia on the history of Switzerland. World Athletics Database People P1146: World Athletics athlete ID World Athletics Remarks: The IAAF athlete database lists information about sport of athletics competitors. OPAC SBN National P396: SBN author ID Italy Remarks: Central Institute for the Union Catalogue (ICCU: Istituto Centrale per il Catalogo Unico) is an Italian government agency created to build a single catalog of all the libraries in the nation. It manages National Library Service (Servizio bibliotecario nazionale). Information Center for Israeli Art Artists P1736: Information Center for Israeli Art artist ID ICIA (Israel) Internet Encyclopedia of Ukraine Other P9070: Internet Encyclopedia of Ukraine ID Internet Encyclopedia of Ukraine International Standard Identifier for Libraries and Related Organizations People P791: ISIL ISIL Remarks: Libraries, museums and archives, decentralized national databases. International Standard Name Identifier International P213: ISNI ISNI Remarks: I contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Authority_control responseCode 3 200 