gsiqeiueyarciqxiyqbaxecimmviziomnsgajgza page 6319 The Vital Voices Global Leadership Awards honor international women leaders in the fields of human rights, economic empowerment, or political reform. The event takes place annually in early spring at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C.[1] The 2009 program was named that year's "Most Inspirational Event" by Washington Life Magazine.[2] The 15th annual Global Leadership Awards were held on March 9, 2016. Past presenters include Ben Affleck, Christiane Amanpour, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chairman Sheila Bair, Candice Bergen, Wolf Blitzer, Laura Bush, United States Secretary of State and Vital Voices co-founder Hillary Clinton, Sally Field, Honorary Co-Chair Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Angelina Jolie, Avon CEO Andrea Jung, Angelique Kidjo, Nicholas Kristof, Lisa Ling, Time Inc. CEO Ann S. Moore, Suze Orman, Queen Rania of Jordan, Zain Verjee, board member Diane von Fürstenberg, Reese Witherspoon, Brian Williams, and many others. Awards[edit] Leadership in Public Life Award (formerly Political Participation Award) Human Rights Award Economic Empowerment Award (formerly Economic Opportunity Award) Fern Holland Award, named in honor of the young lawyer who was killed in Iraq while working to create centers for Iraqi women. The award is given to a woman who works for human rights and women's empowerment. Rising Voices Award, given to a young woman leader. Global Trailblazer 10,000 Women Entrepreneurial Achievement Award, part of a partnership between Vital Voices and Goldman Sachs as an initiative to provide women around the world with entrepreneurial education. Past recipients[edit] 2002[edit] Economic Opportunity Award: Dawn Marole, South Africa Human Rights Award: Oksana Horbunova, Ukraine Political Participation Award: Inez McCormack, Northern Ireland Special Recognition: The Women of Afghanistan (representative: Sadoozai Paneh) 2003: "Voices of Hope in a Time of Global Challenge"[edit] Economic Opportunity Award: Arije Al-Amad, Jordan Human Rights Award: Saisuree Chutikul, Thailand Political Participation Award: Anabella de León, Guatemala Special Recognition: The Women of Israel and the Palestine Territories (representatives: Tamara Barnea and Middle East Nonviolence and Democracy (MEND)) 2004: "Changing the Face of Leadership"[edit] Economic Opportunity Award: Reyna McPeck, Venezuela Human Rights Award: Marina Pisklakova-Parker, Russia Political Participation Award: Amat al Aleem Ali Alsoswa, Yemen Fern Holland Award: Fatima Hassan Mohammed Al-Migdadi, Iraq Special Recognition: The Women of Haiti (representatives: Marie Lucie Bonhomme and Danielle St. Lot, Les Femmes en Démocratie) 2005: "A Call to Action"[edit] Economic Opportunity Award: Jaya Arunachalam, India Human Rights Award: Mu Sochua, Cambodia Political Participation Award: Latifa Jbabdi, Morocco Fern Holland Award: The Women of Ukraine's Orange Revolution (representatives: Nataliya Dmytruk, Oksana Gorbunova, Kateryna Gorbunova, Oksana Yarosh, Yana Deringer, and Ludmila Merlian) 2006[edit] Economic Opportunity Award: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Nigeria Human Rights Award: Rita Chaikin, Israel Fern Holland Award: Mukhtaran Mai, Pakistan Global Trailblazer: Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Liberia Special Recognition: The Women of Kuwait (representatives: Lubna Al-Qazi, Lulwa Al-Qatami, Fatima Hussien Al-Essa, Noureya Al-Saddani, Lulwa Al-Mulla, Rola Dashti, and Ghada Al-Khalaf) 2007: "Women Changing Our World"[edit] Economic Opportunity Award: Maria Pacheco, Guatemala Political Participation Award: Margaret Alva, India Fern Holland Award: Awut Deng Acuil, Sudan Global Trailblazer: Muhammad Yunus, Bangladesh Special Recognition: The Women of China (representatives: Gao Yaojie, Guo Jianmei, Xie Lihua, and Wang Xingjuan) 2008[edit] Human Rights Award: Khin Ohmar and Charm Tong, Burma Political Participation Award: Laura Alonso, Argentina Fern Holland Award: Mariane Pearl, France Global Trailblazer: Sheikha Lubna Al Qasimi, United Arab Emirates Rising Voices Award: Kakenya Ntaiya, Kenya 2009: "Women Leading Change Across the World"[edit] Human Rights Award: Somaly Mam, Cambodia Fern Holland Award: Chouchou Namegabe Nabintu and Marceline Kongolo-Bice, Democratic Republic of Congo Global Trailblazer: Hillary Clinton, United States Rising Voices Award: Sadiqa Basiri Saleem, Afghanistan 10,000 Women Entrepreneurial Achievement Award: Temituokpe Esisi, Nigeria 2010: "Impact Through Innovation: Women Inspiring Change"[edit] Economic Empowerment Award: Roshaneh Zafar, Pakistan Human Rights Award: Panmela Castro, Brazil Leadership in Public Life Award: Afnan Al Zayani, Bahrain Fern Holland Award: Rebecca Lolosoli, Kenya Global Trailblazer: Melinda French Gates, United States 10,000 Women Entrepreneurial Achievement Award: Andeisha Farid, Afghanistan[3] 2011[edit] Human Rights Award: Sunitha Krishnan, India[4] Fern Holland Award: Liron Peleg-Hadomi and Noha Khatieb, Israel 10,000 Women Entrepreneurial Achievement Award: Fatema Akbari, Afghanistan Global Trailblazer Award: Aung San Suu Kyi, Burma, named "Voice of the Decade." Leadership in Public Life Award: Kah Walla, Cameroon 2012[edit] Human Rights Award: Rosana Schaack, Liberia Leadership in Public Life Award: Ruth Zavaleta Salgado, Mexico Fern Holland Award: Samar Minallah Kahn, Pakistan Economic Empowerment Award: Adimaimalaga Tafuna’i, Samoa Global Trailblazer Award: Shatha Al-Harazi, Manal Alsharif, Salwa Bugaighis, Marianne Ibrahim and Amira Yahyaoui[5] 2013[edit] Tep Vanny, Cambodia, Vital Voices Global Leadership Award This section needs expansion with: years since 2011. You can help by adding to it. (September 2016) References[edit] ^ "Global Leadership Awards | Vital Voices". Archived from the original on 2016-03-26. Retrieved 2016-03-21. ^ "The 2010 Social List: Year in Review". Washington Life. Retrieved 2010-03-06. ^ "Past Global Leadership Awards | Vital Voices". Archived from the original on 2016-10-27. Retrieved 2011-02-22. ^ "2011 Global Leadership Awards". Vital Voices. Archived from the original on 24 July 2011. Retrieved 13 May 2011. ^ "Women leaders receive Vital Voices Global Leadership Awards at Kennedy Center". Washington Post. Retrieved 9 October 2021. http://prideofpakistan.com/whoiswhodetail.php?name=RoshanehZafar&id=586[permanent dead link] contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Global_Leadership_Award responseCode 3 200 