gskqngbomeeozoiguavackwoogbcoklgjmpixmea page 10072 Wikimedia maintenance collaboration Main page Talk page Submissions Category — List (sorting) Showcase Assessment Participants Talk — By subject Reviewing instructions Helper script Help desk Backlog drives Nov 2023 AfC submissions Random submission <1 week 2 pending submissions Purge to update v t e WikiProject Articles for creation Welcome to WikiProject Articles for creation! This is the project page for editors interested in working on Articles for creation, Redirects and Categories for creation and Files for upload. If you would like to submit an article to Wikipedia, please use the Article wizard; for redirects and categories, please use the Redirect wizard or Category wizard. If you would like to request a media file be uploaded to Wikipedia, use the File upload wizard. If you simply want to suggest a topic for someone else to write, use Requested articles. Introduction Only registered users with Autoconfirmed and confirmed user levels are allowed to create mainspace articles directly, so Articles for creation, or AfC, opens a path for new article creation. AfC works as a peer review process in which experienced editors can help develop and create drafts, and decline submissions that are not ready to be published. An article may be unsuitable for Wikipedia for a number of reasons. AfC submissions can be declined based on having insufficient content, consisting of vandalism or personal attacks, posting copyrighted material, not asserting notability (WP:N), and most often for not being properly sourced. We also do not accept new articles where a page on the topic already exists, even if under another name. A dedicated team of editors is needed to review the requests. There is often a backlog, so ensure submissions meet Wikipedia guidelines to avoid repeated declines. Brief history On 5 December 2005, in response to the Seigenthaler incident, unregistered users were stopped from creating new pages on the English Wikipedia (read about it in the Wikipedia's newspaper The Signpost). Consequently, the page Wikipedia:Articles for creation was set up by Creidieki (talk · contribs) and others, to allow unregistered users to submit articles for registered users to create on their behalf. The first page to be created was the redirect Fox Latin America requested by 140.247.23.58 (talk · contribs · WHOIS). The first article created was Horsea Island by Chemstud (talk · contribs). Following huge backlogs on the page, Kwsn and others started WikiProject Articles for creation on 2 June 2007. Project goals Promote awareness of the WikiProject. Review requests at Category:Pending AfC submissions (or Wikipedia:WikiProject Articles for creation/Submissions) Wikipedia:Articles for creation/Redirects and categories Wikipedia:Files for upload Promote, monitor and improve the articles and images created through the project. How to get involved We need you! Any editor who meets the criteria below can apply to be a reviewer. Reviewers must have: a Wikipedia account at least 90 days old. a minimum of 500 undeleted edits to articles. read and understood the reviewing instructions. a demonstrated understanding of the policies mentioned in the reviewing instructions, including the special notability categories. evidence of understanding the deletion policy (experience in areas such as CSD/AfD/PROD or page curation, while not mandatory, are beneficial). a willingness and ability to respond in a timely manner to questions about their reviews. AfC submissions must be reviewed in accordance with Wikipedia's established content policies and guidelines — become familiar with them before conducting reviews. The reviewing instructions cover reviews of article drafts, redirects and categories, and file requests. If you are unsure, ask for help! Some helpful places are the Reviewer talk page, the live chat in Wikipedia's Live Help Channel, or the #articles-for-creation channel in the NPP Discord. To join, follow the instructions at Wikipedia talk:WikiProject Articles for creation/Participants. Administrators and New Page Patrollers are automatically able to use the helper script and thus do not need to request access or add their name to the list. Welcome template This template is used to welcome new participants to the project. It can be added to a new participant's talk page by adding {{subst:AfC welcome}} to the bottom of the page: Hi, and welcome to WikiProject Articles for creation! We are a group of editors who work together on the Articles for creation and Files for upload pages. A few tips that you might find helpful: Please take time to fully read the reviewers' instructions before reviewing submissions. The reviewers' talk page is the best place to ask for help or advice. You might like to watchlist this page, and you are encouraged to take part in any discussion that comes up. Article submissions that need reviewing can be found in Category:Pending AfC submissions and there is also a useful list which is maintained by a bot. You might wish to add {{AFC status}} or {{AfC Defcon}} to your userpage, which will alert you to the number of open submissions. There is also a project userbox. If you haven't done so already, please consider adding your name to the list of participants by subject. Several of our members monitor Wikipedia's help IRC channel, and you are welcome to join in to ask Wikipedia-related questions. The IRC channel #wikipedia-en-afc connect is used occasionally for internal discussion regarding the Articles for creation process, and also serves as a recent changes feed, displaying all edits made in the Articles for creation namespace. The help desk is the place where new editors can ask questions about their submissions. You are welcome to help in answering their questions. Once again, welcome to the project. ~~~~ Advertisement and reviewer recruiting Put this template on your user page and talk page to help promote this WikiProject! Code: {{Wikipedia ads|ad=69}} Wikipedia ads file info – #69 You can also use one of the following userboxes. Code: {{User WikiProject Articles for creation}} This user is a reviewer at WikiProject Articles for creation. Code: {{User AfC}} This user is a participant in WikiProject Articles for creation. You can help! Code: {{User wikipedia/AFC}} This user is an articles for creation reviewer on the English Wikipedia. Code: {{User AfC reviewer since}} This user has been an Articles for creation reviewer for 0 days. (verify) Drop this on a prospective reviewer's user talk page to help recruit new reviewers. Code: {{subst:WPAFCInvite}} Hello WikiProject Articles for creation, Unregistered editors cannot create articles on Wikipedia, but they can use the articles for creation process to submit drafts that registered editors can either accept and publish or decline. WikiProject Articles for creation is looking for experienced editors who want to partake in this peer review process. If you have what it takes to get involved, then please take a look at the reviewing instructions. To discuss specific AfC reviews, do so freely on the designated talk page. There is currently a backlog of over 0 drafts (0 very old). If you know an editor who may be willing to help out, please use the template you are currently reading {{subst:WPAFCInvite}} to draw attention to this WikiProject. Many hands make light work! ~~~~ To add an AFC icon to the top-right corner of a page, use: {{AFC topicon}} Awards The AfC barnstar is granted for meritorious contributions relating to Articles for creation and consists of a green cross on a star composed of five capital letter As. The A signifies new articles, which is what this project is all about, the grey signifies the neutrality of Wikipedia, and the green cross signifies the Articles for creation project. There is also a companion ribbon File:AFC Ribbon 2.png, consisting of a thick blue center stripe surrounded by two narrow grey stripes surrounded by two wide green stripes. The blue center recollects the new color of former red links. The AfC Barnstar The ribbon may be displayed by any user who has been awarded the barnstar. The AfC ribbon To present this award to a user, place the following code on their talk page: {{subst:AFC barnstar|message ~~~~}} Chat rooms Wikipedia's IRC Live Help Channel #wikipedia-en-afc connect channel in IRC #articles-for-creation channel in the NPP Discord Article Alerts This page shows current alerts for articles within the scope of WikiProject Articles for creation, courtesy of the AAlertBot. Today's featured article requests 05 Jan 2024 – Open Arms (SZA song) (talk · edit · hist) has been proposed for Today's Featured Article by Your Power (t · c); see discussion Did you know 14 Nov 2023 – Updown Girl (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by Richard Nevell (t · c); see discussion 12 Nov 2023 – Luochahai City (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by Bremps (t · c); see discussion 12 Nov 2023 – Nancy Nash (actress) (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by Silver seren (t · c); see discussion 12 Nov 2023 – Weekends with Adele (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by MaranoFan (t · c); see discussion 11 Nov 2023 – Curatores aedium sacrarum et operum locorumque publicorum (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by Graearms (t · c); see discussion 09 Nov 2023 – Jet Lag: The Game (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by Spaghettifier (t · c); see discussion 08 Nov 2023 – Carlos Scharff (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by Arawoke (t · c); see discussion 08 Nov 2023 – Fan Xiaoqin (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by Bremps (t · c); see discussion 06 Nov 2023 – Chain-melted state (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by SonOfYoutubers (t · c); see discussion 06 Nov 2023 – Murder of Jiang Ge (talk · edit · hist) was nominated for DYK by Toadboy123 (t · c); see discussion (5 more...) Articles for deletion 20 Nov 2023 – Portland and Western 1501 (talk · edit · hist) was AfDed by Pbritti (t · c); see  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 77 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:WikiProject_Articles_for_creation responseCode 3 200 