gszcqgfmlchsjmkayqgoqgmkwqmslmuarkseimcc length 6 345587 page 10011 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 31 January 2020 12:00, 31 January 2020 (UTC) George W. Christians ... that George W. Christians (pictured), leader of the American Fascists, claimed to be "so red" that he made the Russians look yellow? ... that some media sources described Queen Elizabeth II's agreement with Prince Harry and Meghan as a "hard Megxit"? ... that Bill Regan hit two of his eighteen career home runs in a single inning of a Major League Baseball game on June 16, 1928? ... that violent content in the video game Road Rash disqualified it from official motorcycle manufacturer endorsements, resulting in soundalike brands such as "Panda" for Honda and "Kamikaze" for Kawasaki? ... that Taiwanese politician Lai Pin-yu cosplayed as Asuka Langley Soryu during her 2020 election campaign? ... that La Saline Natural Area in northeastern Alberta, Canada, features a large tufa mound? ... that in the 1883 political cartoon "An appalling attempt to muzzle the watch-dog of science", Friedrich Graetz portrayed Herbert Spencer as a monumental dog? ... that the Wellington clock tower has no clock? 00:00, 31 January 2020 (UTC) Map of the Holy Land published in 1620–21 ... that engraver Abraham Goos and merchant Jacob ben Abraham Zaddiq were responsible for the first map of the Holy Land printed in Hebrew (pictured)? ... that Fresh Off the Boat is the longest-running Asian-American family sitcom in television history? ... that after a knee injury at the age of 12, ballet dancer Akane Takada waited more than a year to physically grow enough for corrective surgery? ... that the Carnegie Building in Atlanta was designed by G. Lloyd Preacher, who moved his offices to the building after its completion? ... that Scottish screenwriter Krysty Wilson-Cairns, who co-wrote the Academy Award–nominated screenplay for the World War I film 1917, once wrote a short story about killer guinea pigs? ... that the locally scarce bird's eye primrose grows at Cow Myers in North Yorkshire? ... that the bypassing of Nizar in the Fatimid caliphal succession, and his subsequent revolt and execution, led to a split in the Isma'ili branch of Shia Islam that lasts to this day? ... that a 1986 contest by radio station KXUS jammed all telephone circuits in Springfield, Missouri, for an hour? 30 January 2020 12:00, 30 January 2020 (UTC) Assassination attempt on Louis Philippe I of France ... that the infernal machine was a 25-barrel gun used in a failed assassination attempt on King Louis Philippe I in 1835 (depicted)? ... that boxer Charles Lubulwa is the youngest Ugandan ever to compete at the Olympic Games? ... that the magazines Pulp and Animerica Extra have been called "instrumental in disseminating manga culture" in North America? ... that three cannonballs were discovered in the roof of the Church of St Cuthbert, Bellingham, during renovation works? ... that despite her membership in two of Scotland's largest land-owning families, philanthropist Lady Victoria Campbell dedicated her life to helping those who lived on the islands of Argyll? ... that the International Ice Hockey Association was established as a means of shifting the control of world hockey to Canada, "where it rightfully belonged"? ... that Prince Minye Kyawhtin, who had rebelled against three Ava kings for over 32 years, was killed by his own bodyguard for sexually assaulting the guard's sister? ... that the player controls a smiley face in 868-HACK? 00:00, 30 January 2020 (UTC) Doubleband surgeonfish ... that the doubleband surgeonfish (example pictured) can turn a dark brown shade flushed with red or violet when stressed? ... that martial law was declared in Russell County, Alabama, after the assassination of state attorney general candidate Albert Patterson in 1954? ... that despite spending 15 years in the Soviet Union's Italian embassy, diplomat Valentin Bogomazov's only ambassadorships were to South American countries? ... that the fleet of the Fatimid Caliphate went up in flames in 996, resulting in anti-Christian pogroms in Cairo? ... that Richard Rudzitis wrote poetry and articles with a pencil on rags, which he stitched into a pea coat, while in labour camps? ... that an extension of New York City's Q27 bus route was discontinued because it was losing $120 a day? ... that the China-exclusive Let's Hunt Monsters is the second highest-grossing augmented reality mobile game, behind Pokémon Go? ... that German spy Alphons Timmerman was captured while carrying ingredients for invisible ink? 29 January 2020 12:00, 29 January 2020 (UTC) Church of the Good Shepherd ... that the bell of the Church of the Good Shepherd (pictured), one of New Zealand's most photographed buildings, commemorates photographer and explorer Edward Sealy and his granddaughter? ... that the 2016 24 Hours of Daytona saw two Chevrolet Corvette C7.R cars finish within 0.034 seconds of each other in the closest class finish in the race's history? ... that according to philosopher Liu Gangji, modern Chinese aesthetics have largely resulted from the propagation of German idealism? ... that the cemetery of what is now Fordham University had to be relocated in 1889 to make way for the New York Botanical Garden? ... that not only does Couma utilis have edible fruit, its latex is used as a base for chewing gum, caulking boats, and whitewashing houses? ... that Uganda's delegation at the 1968 Summer Olympics included boxers Leo Rwabwogo and Eridadi Mukwanga, who won the nation's first Olympic medals at the Games? ... that place cells are thought to play an important role in episodic memory? ... that Seattle councilmember Andrew J. Lewis was sworn in at a community garden atop a parking garage? 00:00, 29 January 2020 (UTC) Justitia et pax, by an anonymous painter ... that a verse from Psalm 85 inspired artworks depicting the kiss of Justice and Peace (example shown)? ... that Odette Rousseau almost drowned after landing in a river during a 1955 world-record skydive? ... that 75 business leaders, pastors, and listeners of Nevada's KRCV radio attempted to buy the station, even though it was not making money? ... that between 934 and 944, Abu Abdallah al-Baridi fought against Ibn Ra'iq, Tuzun, Bajkam, the Hamdanids, the Buyids, and Oman, twice occupied Baghdad, and was named vizier four times? ... that sand blown from a landslide in the Ringold Formation has created sand dunes nearby? ... that one out of ten labourers in the haruwa–charuwa system is forced to work when seriously ill or injured, and may still face deduction or non-payment of wages? ... that in the Apollo 11 spaceflight, Neil Armstrong brought two pieces of the Wright Flyer to the Moon in his personal preference kit? ... that English footballer Tyreece John-Jules's uncle is Red Dwarf's Cat? 28 January 2020 12:00, 28 January 2020 (UTC) Angelina ... that the performance of French singer Angelina (pictured) at the 2018 Junior Eurovision Song Contest marked France's return to the competition after 14 years? ... that the first Celtic currency of Britain consisted of iron bars? ... that the 1990 Wrestling Summit was the only time the World Wrestling Federation, New Japan Pro-Wrestling, and All Japan Pro Wrestling presented a show together? ... that Svetolik Dragačevac was deported to a concentration camp after sending a threatening letter to Adolf Hitler? ... that with a stretched length of up to 20 cm (8 in), Pontobdella muricata is one of the largest marine leeches? ... that Hui Kālaiʻāina collected 17,000 signatures from Hawaiians seeking to restore the monarchy? ... that contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 73 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2020/January responseCode 3 200 