haniqqxgkshmugmkwolsditawasotsbgrodeocdg page 10012 Shortcuts WP:DYKCRIT WP:DYKG Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a complete handbook of all of DYK's guidelines and standard practices. It is more helpful as a reference than a guide – if you're looking for a guide on how to do a specific job, see the reviewing, prep building, and admin instructions. To some extent, DYK approval of a nomination is a subjective process. No amount of studying this page can guarantee approval, nor will violating any guideline or precedent guarantee disapproval. Just because an unfamiliar criterion is not listed does not mean a nomination cannot be disqualified. The subjective decision might depend on an attempt to circumvent the details of the rules, especially if the attempt does not address the underlying purpose of improving the hook and article. Articles[edit] This section in a nutshell: At the time of nomination, an article must have been created, expanded fivefold, moved to mainspace, translated from another wiki, or promoted to good article status within the last seven days. Articles should be at least 1500 characters of original prose long. Articles must be neutral, reliably sourced with inline citations, and BLP- and copyright-compliant. The hook fact should be cited in the article, no later than the end of the sentence it appears in. Articles should not have any maintenance tags, and should look presentable. Newness[edit] Shortcut WP:DYKNEW Articles featured at DYK must be new at the time of nomination. For DYK purposes, an article is considered new if, within the last seven days, the article has been created in mainspace from a redlink or redirect; expanded at least fivefold in terms of its prose portion; promoted to good article status;[a] moved from userspace or draftspace into mainspace; or translated from another Wikipedia. Articles that have been re-created from deletion may be considered new. The seven-day limit can be extended for a day or two upon request. An article is ineligible for DYK if it has previously appeared on the main page as a bold link at DYK, unless the article was then deleted as a copyright violation. It is also ineligible if it has, within the year prior to nomination or between nomination and appearance on the Main Page, appeared as a boldlink at In the news (ITN) or in the prose section of Selected anniversaries (OTD), or as Today's featured article (TFA). A nomination must go on hold if the article has pending nominations to appear at any of the same. Bolded names with dates listed at the bottom of OTD are not disqualified, nor are names listed in "Recent deaths" section of ITN. Fivefold expansion[edit] Shortcuts WP:DYK5X WP:5X Articles can be made eligible via a fivefold expansion of an article's prose. This calculation is made from the last version of the article before the expansion began, even if text from the original was deleted in the process (unless the text was a copyright violation, in which case it does not count towards the size of the original). This may be a bad surprise, but we don't have enough time and volunteers to reach consensus on the quality of each previous article. Some people think we're mindless bureaucratic meanies for wanting a 100,000-character article to be expanded to 500,000. But please don't miss the forest for the trees. We didn't want you to nominate a 100,000-character existing article; we wanted a new article. If it isn't new, it can still be nominated if it gets listed as a good article. Length[edit] Shortcuts WP:DYKLEN WP:DYKSPLIT Articles featured at DYK must exceed 1500 characters of prose. Text that is not original does not count, including text copied from the public domain and from other Wikipedia articles. Splits from non-new articles are ineligible, but if the copied text does not exceed one-fifth of the total prose size, the article can be considered eligible as a fivefold expansion of the copied text. Articles split from new articles or articles with active nominations remain eligible, unless the parent article only qualifies as a newly good article. New text may not count towards the length requirement of more than one article. Prose size[edit] Shortcut WP:DYKPROSE The prose size of an article is the amount of raw text contained in the article. That includes letters, numbers, punctuation, and spaces, but should exclude wikitext, templates, lists, tables, section headers, image captions, block quotes, the table of contents, and references. DYKcheck is generally considered the authoritative counter of prose size, but manual counts are admissible as well. The byte counts indicated in an article's revision history are useless for DYK purposes, but DYKcheck will work correctly on old revisions. External policy compliance[edit] Shortcuts WP:DYKPOL WP:DYKCITE The article must be based on reliable sources, which must be cited inline. All content that could reasonably be challenged, except for plot summaries and that which summarizes cited content elsewhere in the article, must be cited no later than the end of the paragraph (or line if the content is not in prose). The use of multiple sources is generally preferred, though more leeway may be given for more obscure topics. Sources should be properly labelled; that is, not under an "External links" header, and not bare URLs. No one is required to check that the article's citations generally back up its content, with the exception of the hook fact; however, any source-to-text integrity issues that are discovered need to rectified before approval. Shortcut WP:DYKHFC The facts of the hook in the article should be cited no later than the end of the sentence in which they appear. If a part of the hook fact appears multiple times, including across multiple boldlinked articles, citing at least one suffices. Citations at the end of the paragraph are not sufficient, and this rule applies even when a citation would not be required for the purposes of the article. Articles should be neutral, and free of copyright violations, including close paraphrasing and media copyright. All content subject to the policy on biographies of living persons must conform with it. Achieving good article status does not grant a pass for this section; DYK-specific verification is still required. Presentability[edit] Shortcuts WP:DYKCOMPLETE WP:DYKTAG WP:DYKSTUB There is a expectation that an article—even a short one—that is to appear on the front page should appear to be reasonably complete and not some sort of work in progress. Therefore, articles which include unexpanded headers are likely to be rejected. Articles that fail to deal adequately with the topic are also likely to be rejected. For example, an article about a book that fails to summarize the book's contents, but contains only a bio of the author and some critics' views, is likely to be rejected as insufficiently comprehensive. The article should not be subject to unresolved edit-warring or the presence of stub or dispute tags. (Removing the tags without consensus does not count.) An orphan tag is not a dispute tag. Articles nominated for deletion must go on hold until the process has concluded. Hooks[edit] This section in a nutshell: Hooks should be definite facts that are verified by citations in the article. Hooks should be likely to be perceived as unusual or intriguing by readers with no special knowledge or interest. At the same time, avoid sensationalism and gratuity. Hooks should follow a standard format. External policy compliance[edit] Shortcuts WP:DYKHOOK WP:DYKHOOKCITE The hook should include a definite fact that is unlikely to change, and citations in the article that are used to support the hook fact must verify the hook. The wording of the article, hook, and source should all agree with each other with respect to who is providing the information – if the source is not willing to the say the fact in its own voice, the hook should attribute back to the original source as well. Shortcut WP:DYKHOOKBLP Hooks must adopt a neutral point of view. Hooks that unduly focus on negative aspects of living persons should be avoided. Note that this is a stricter requirement than BLP as a whole: a sentence that might be due weight in the article can become undue if used in the hook, as all of the surrounding context of the individual's wider life is missing. Style[edit] Shortcuts WP:DYKINT WP:DYKHOOKSTYLE The hook should be likely to be perceived as unusual or intriguing by readers with no special knowledge or interest. The most interesting hooks are the ones that leave the reader wanting to know more – we want people to see the new articles our volunteers have put time and effort into crafting, and a hook that excites the reader into wanting to know more goes a long way towards that goal. At the same time, excessively sensational or gratuitous hooks should be rejected. Make sure to provide any necessary context for your hook – don't assume everyone worldwide is familiar with your subject. However, do keep hooks short and to the point. The boldlinked article should generally be the main or at least a major factor in the hook; avoid hooks that are primarily about an incident the subject is only tangentially related to. Special considerations[edit] Shortcut WP:DYKFICTION If the subject of the hook is a work of fiction or a fictional character, the hook must invol contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Did_you_know/Article_length responseCode 3 200 