hayojidqicakfmzitekekmxehclckoymbqaegerm length 6 223215 page 10071 Maritime service branch of the Israel Defense Forces Israeli Navy חיל הים הישראלי Emblem of the Israeli Navy Founded 1948; 75 years ago (1948) Country Israel Type Navy Size 7 corvettes (Sa'ar 5 class, Sa'ar 6 class) 8 missile boats (Sa'ar 4.5 class) 5 submarines (Dolphin class) 45 patrol boats 2 support ships 9,500 active[1] 10,000 reserve[1] Part of Israel Defense Forces Garrison/HQ HaKirya, Tel Aviv, Israel Motto(s) Open Sea, Safe Coasts Engagements 1948 Arab–Israeli War War over Water Six-Day War War of Attrition Yom Kippur War 1982 Lebanon War 1982–2000 South Lebanon conflict Second Intifada 2006 Lebanon War Blockade of the Gaza Strip Gaza War Operation Protective Edge Operation Guardian of the Walls 2023 Israel–Hamas war Commanders Commander of the Navy Aluf David Saar Salama Insignia Ensign Jack Pennant Military unit The Israeli Navy (Hebrew: חיל הים הישראלי, Ḥeil HaYam HaYisraeli, lit. '[The] Israeli Sea Corps'; Arabic: البحرية الإسرائيلية) is the naval warfare service arm of the Israel Defense Forces, operating primarily in the Mediterranean Sea theater as well as the Gulf of Eilat and the Red Sea theater. The current commander in chief of the Israeli Navy is Aluf David Saar Salama. The Israeli Navy is believed to be responsible for maintaining Israel's offshore nuclear second strike capability.[2] History[edit] The Sarah I: a 190-foot four-masted schooner of 750 tons used as a training ship by the Betar Naval Academy. INS Eilat, ex-Royal Navy Z-class destroyer sold to Israel in 1955 The origins of the Israeli Navy lay in the founding of the Betar Naval Academy, a Jewish naval training school established in Civitavecchia, Italy, in 1934 by the Revisionist Zionist movement under the direction of Ze'ev Jabotinsky, The Academy trained cadets from all over Europe, Palestine and South Africa and produced some of the future commanders of the Israeli Navy. In September 1937, the training ship Sarah I visited Haifa and Tel Aviv as part of a Mediterranean tour. INS Gal at the Naval Museum, Haifa In 1938, encouraged by the Jewish Agency, Shlomo Bardin founded the Marine High School in Bosmat, the Technion's Junior Technical College. 1943 witnessed the founding of the Palyam, the naval branch of the Palmach, whose training was undertaken at the maritime school. The Jewish merchant marine was also raised, operating SS Tel-Aviv and cargo ships such as Atid. In 1942, eleven hundred Haganah volunteers joined the Royal Navy, mostly in technical roles (12 of them were officers by the nomination agreement of the Jewish Agency with the Royal Navy). A few reached sea service and combat service. Two of them served with the Fleet Air Arm (FAA), one of whom was Edmond Wilhelm Brillant and the other Zvi Avidror. With the end of the Second World War and the start of the Jewish insurgency in Mandatory Palestine, Palyam members took part in clandestine immigration activities, bringing Europe's Jews to Palestine, as well as commando actions against Royal Navy deportation ships. Royal Navy volunteers, meanwhile, rejoined the Haganah. During the last months of British Mandate in Palestine, the former Royal Navy volunteers started work on the captured clandestine immigration ships (known as the Fleet of Shadows) in Haifa harbor, salvaged a few and pressed them into service. These were to become the Navy's first ships and saw service in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. Israeli missile boats on parade, 1971 At the outset of the 1948 war and with the founding of the IDF, the Israeli Navy consisted of four former Aliyah Bet ships impounded in Haifa harbor. These ships were refurbished by a newly formed naval repair facility with the assistance of two private shipbuilding and repair companies. In October 1948, a submarine chaser was purchased from the United States. With the founding of the IDF in early 1948, the Israeli Navy was therefore formed from a core of the following personnel:[3][4] Royal Navy volunteers with the technical skills and discipline acquired from the Royal Navy, though with no active sea service and experience on Royal Navy ships. Palyam members who had led the clandestine and immigration effort, but had no sea background in navigation or leading a ship into a battle. The captains of clandestine and immigration ships were Italian, while Palyam personnel were commanding the ship under instructions from the Haganah. Ike Aharonowitch, captain of Exodus and a Jew, was the exception rather than the rule. Merchant Marine captains and chief engineers, possessing navigation skills but lacking combat skills. Jewish volunteers[5][6] from the United States Navy and Royal Navy, such as Commander Paul Shulman[7] of the U.S. Navy, and Commanders Solomon and Allen Burk of the Royal Navy.[8] These, however, were often discriminated against and their experience wasted by a navy command that was based on the Palmach and its various branches. This resulted in odd situations where unskilled officers from the Palyam were in command of far more experienced naval officers. During the war, the warships served on coastal patrol duties and bombarded Arab targets on land, including Egyptian coastal installations in and around the Gaza area all the way to Port Said.[9] The Israeli Navy also engaged the Egyptian Navy at sea during Operation Yoav, and the Egyptian Navy's flagship, Emir Farouk, was sunk in an operation by Israeli naval commandos. Torpedo boats of the Israeli Navy. Built by Chantiers Navals de Meulan, France. Palyam personnel often resisted efforts to instill order, discipline and rank in the newly formed service. Mess rooms were initially shared by both officers and enlisted men. Ships possessed a captain with nautical skills, but also a commanding officer regarded as political. This would cause a great deal of debate between veterans of the Palyam, Royal Navy volunteers from the Haganah and U.S. Navy Machal volunteers about what form the Navy should take.[3][10][11] Commander Allen Burk is reputed to have said, out of despair, "You cannot make naval officers from cowboys".[4] Royal Navy Captain Ashe Lincoln,[12] who was Jewish, advised Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion to purchase corvettes, frigates, destroyers, torpedo boats, and patrol boats to build up the Israeli Navy power. To that end, he urged Ben-Gurion to consult with professional navy advisers. This resulted in instructions to contact U.S. Navy advisors, mainly Commander Paul Shulman from the U.S. Navy. The Israeli Navy suffered from a lack of professional command during its early days.[3] Gershon Zak, head of the IDF "Sea Service", was a teacher and bureaucrat without any relevant experience. Having never been recruited into the IDF, Zak was a civilian and had no official rank. The early days of the Israeli Navy were therefore characterized by political infighting, as many groups and individuals jockeyed for power. Palyam politics blocked the nomination of Paul Shulman (a Jewish U.S. Navy officer with a rank of Commander who volunteered for the Israeli Navy) as Navy-Commander in Chief and he resigned in 1949. The first Navy-Commander in Chief awarded the rank of Aluf was Shlomo Shamir.[3] The conclusion of the 1948 war afforded the navy the time to build up its strength. Beginning in the early 1950s the navy purchased frigates, torpedo boats, destroyers, and eventually submarines. The material build-up was accompanied by the training of Israeli Navy officers in Royal Navy academies in the UK and Malta, as well as in France. Three distinct periods characterize the history of the Israeli Navy: Foundation and early days The destroyers' age The missile boats era, beginning in 1965 and bearing fruit during the 1973 Yom Kippur War.[13][14] Until 1967 the Naval Headquarters were located at Stella Maris, on the slopes of Mount Carmel, Haifa. After the Six-Day War it was relocated to the Kirya in Tel Aviv, next to IDF Headquarters. Yom Kippur War[edit] Main articles: Battle of Latakia and Battle of Baltim In the most significant engagement in its history, during the Yom Kippur War five Israeli Navy missile boats sank five Syrian ships without losses during the Battle of Latakia. As a result, the Syrian Navy remained in port for the remainder of the conflict.[15] It was the first naval battle in history between surface-to-surface missile-equipped missile boats. Another significant engagement was the Battle of Baltim, during which six Israeli Navy missile boats engaged four Egyptian Navy missile boats sinking three, again, without losses. 2006 Lebanon War[edit] The surprise attack on the Israeli navy's flagship INS Hanit by an onshore Hezbollah battery was a turning point for naval doctrine and operations. Four seamen died when the YJ-83 missile hit the corvette because the vessel's missile defense systems had not been turned on at that time.[16] Bases[edit] INS Rahav Sa'ar 5-class missile сorvettes of the Israeli Navy Shayetet 13, Naval commandos Haifa – Shayetet 3 (Missile Boats Flotilla), the Submarine Flotilla, Patrol Boats Squadron 914. The emblem of the Haifa naval base is two arrows – one signifying the Missile Boats Flotilla and the other the Submarine Flotilla. Atlit – home to Shayetet 13, the navy's elite commando unit. Ashdod – mainly a base for Patrol Boats Squadron 916. The emblem of the Ashdod naval base is two opposing arrows. Eilat – Patrol Boats Squadron 915. Eilat naval base was founded in 1951 and has been responsible for the Israeli Navy's Red Sea theater since 1981, when the Red Sea Naval Command Center was withdrawn from Sharm el-Sheikh in accordance with the Egyptian–Israeli peace treaty. The emblem of the Eilat naval base represents the red roofs of Eilat. The Naval Training base – located in Haifa, contains the submarine operations school, the missile boat operations school and the naval command school. The naval training base also functions as the Israeli Naval Academy. The emblem of the Haifa training base is an owl, symbolizing wisdom and hard learning. Mamt contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Israeli_Navy responseCode 3 200 