hcdccemciemcucjosaiqecsidgkmkmmkqivcuaza length 6 399481 page 10130 Shortcuts WP:REQUESTDIR WP:REQDIR WP:RQ "WP:RQ" redirects here. For the page to request a database query, see WP:RAQ. For "rage quitting on Wikipedia", see WP:Rage quit. Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Chat Meetups Directories (Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects) The following is a list of interactive forums and inquiry pages for English Wikipedia. Please select the noticeboard or request page most closely connected to the query you have as described below. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard. For other useful directories and indexes, see the directory page. Assistance with editing General Help desk – for asking questions about how to use or edit Wikipedia. Teahouse – for new editors to become accustomed to and ask questions about editing. Edit requests – where editors can request for edits they cannot or should not make themselves to be made to a page. Copyright Copyright assistance – a page that serves as a directory of copyright resources on Wikipedia. Requesting copyright permission – a guide for asking permission to use other people's work in Wikipedia. Media copyright questions – the places for help with image copyrights, tagging, non-free content, and related questions Other Scalable vector graphics help – a page to ask questions about SVG formatting. General knowledge questions Reference desks – provides a central compilation of the boards as listed below where you can ask questions about any topic except Wikipedia itself. The editors there will try to answer your questions, or point you in the direction of the information you need. Computing – to ask about computing, information technology, electronics, software and hardware. Entertainment – to ask about sports, popular culture, movies, music, video games, and TV shows. Humanities – to ask about history, politics, literature, religion, philosophy, law, finance, economics, art, and society. Language – to ask about spelling, grammar, word etymology, language usage, and translations. Mathematics – to ask about mathematics, geometry, probability, and statistics. Science – to ask about biology, chemistry, physics, medicine, geology, engineering and technology. (Miscellaneous) – to ask about anything that is not listed above. Content related Content creation Requested articles – a page that explains how to request an article. Requested lists – a page that explains how to request a list style article. Requested templates – a page that explains how to request the creation of a template. Requested redirects – a page that explains how to request a page redirect. Media Requested recordings – a page that explains how to request all types of recordings. Requested pictures – a page that explains how to request still images. Feedback Peer reviews – a page that explains how to request comprehensive review of articles. Renaming of pages (Moves) Requested page moves – a page that explains how to request page renaming. Wikipedia:Move review – a page for contesting page moves/ move requests that have already been closed. Other Bot assistance – a page that explains how to request assistance with automated bots. Translations – a page that explains how to request translations of articles. Page importation – a page that explains how to request information for sister projects. History merge – a page that explains how to request a history merge. Resource Requests – a page dedicated to organizing and sharing the vast resources available to Wikipedians, to aid in verification. Feedback request service – a voluntary service to increase awareness of Requests for Comments (RFCs) and other discussions on Wikipedia. User accounts and user rights related Requesting an account – a place where users who cannot create an account themselves may request an account be created for them. Renaming your account – a place where users may request an account renaming. Usurping another account – a place where users may request to take over a dormant username. User permissions – a page for requesting rollback, reviewer, file mover, account creator, confirmed, and autopatrolled rights. Dispute related Dispute resolution – provides a central compilation of the boards as listed below to help resolve conflicts. Third opinion – for disputes between two editors to receive an outside opinion. Requests for comment – the place to go to get outside input on issues from a broad number of users. Dispute resolution noticeboard – used as a "first step" in solving content issues. Arbitration – the "last resort" for conduct issues when all other avenues are exhausted, issues binding rulings. Noticeboards – Wikipedia noticeboards are pages where editors can ask questions and request assistance from people who are familiar with the policies and guidelines covered by each individual board. Conflict of interest – for determining whether a specific editor has a conflict of interest. External links – reporting possible breaches of the external links policy. Neutrality – for reporting issues regarding whether article content is compliant with the Neutral Point of View policy. Original research – for requesting input on possible problems of original research. Sources – for posting questions regarding whether particular sources are reliable in context. Disruptive editing Administrators – for posting information and issues that affect administrators. Edit warring – for reporting active edit warriors and recent violations of the three-revert rule. Incidents – for reporting and discussing incidents that require the intervention of administrators and experienced editors. Vandalism – for reporting about obvious and persistent vandals and spammers. Technical and procedural Village pump – main directory divided into boards by topic as seen below, to discuss the technical issues, policies, and operations of Wikipedia. Policy – to discuss changes to existing and proposed policies. Proposals – to discuss new proposals that are not policy-related. Technical – to discuss technical issues. For bug reports and feature requests of MediaWiki, please use phabricator.wikimedia.org Idea lab – to discuss ideas before proposing them to the community and attempt to find solutions to common issues. Miscellaneous – to post messages that do not fit into any other categories listed above. Lua requests – a page to request help from Lua developers in writing a Lua module. Database query – a page to request database queries for certain criteria. Administration related Adminship – a page that explains how to apply to become an administrator. Nomination – a page that explains how to get help with the administrator application process. Administrator attention – a listing of all the pages where administrators can be made aware of ongoing problems. Active sanctions – a page lists the currently active sanctions imposed through the arbitration process. CheckUser – a page that explains how to get help with users using multiple accounts. Oversight – a page for urgent, enhanced deletion process for removing edits that breach privacy or defame somebody. Page protection – a page for asking for article protection. Undeletion – a page that describes the process for restoring pages or files that were uncontroversially deleted via proposed deletion. Special services In addition to the pages listed above alternative interactive help services are available as described below. Ask for help on your talk page and a volunteer will visit you there. Or place {{Help me}} then your question on a talk page, preferably your talk page, a volunteer will assist you there! (Helpers can find you at Category:Wikipedians looking for help.) If your help request specifically requires administrator assistance, use the {{Admin help}} template on a talk page. (Administrators can find you at Wikipedians looking for help from administrators.) You can join the #wikipedia-en-help IRC chat room for live assistance. Adopt-a-User is where you can find experienced editors that "adopt" new users and mentor them. Contact Wikipedia is a page that describes how and where to contact Wikipedia directly for a variety of reasons. v t e Noticeboards Wikipedia's centralized discussion, request, and help venues. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard. For a related set of forums which do not function as noticeboards see formal review processes. General Administrators Main Incidents Bots Bureaucrats Centralized discussion Closure requests Education Interface admins Main Page errors Open proxies VRT Oversight User permissions Articles and content Biographies of living persons Copyrights Questions on media Problems Current events Dispute resolution External links Fringe theories Neutral point of view Original research Pending changes Reliable sources Resource requests Scalable vector graphics Spam Blacklist Whitelist Style Titleblacklist Translation Page handling History merges Mergers Splits Moves Protection Importation XfD Articles Redirects Categories Templates Files Miscellany Undeletion User conduct Conflict of interest Contributor copyright Edit warring and 3RR Sanctions Personal restrictions General sanctions Contentious topics Sockpuppets Usernames (Requests for comment) Vandalism Other Arbitration Committee noticeboard Requests Enforcement Edit filters Requested False positives Questions Help desk Teahouse Reference desk New articles Requests for comment Village pump Policy Technical Proposals Idea lab WMF Miscellaneous WikiProject proposals Discussions for discussion Category:Wikipedia noticeboards v t e Wikipedia directories and indexes Administration pages Protocols Policies Guidelines Manual of Style Assistance Help directory Menu FAQs Interactive help Reader's index Tips Styletips Tools The community Portal Discussions Noticeboards Essays Editor's index Departments Maintenance WikiProjects MediaWiki Wikitext HTML Templates Locutions Abbreviations Edit su contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Request_directory responseCode 3 200 