hcmgtmcsnaqqmatcbigapawqpgiqyoxetgccbcdo length 6 208364 page 10005 Today's featured article archive 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 January February March April May June July August September October November December v t e Featured content: Featured articles ← Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Featured article candidates (FAC) Featured article criteria Featured article log Featured article statistics Featured article review (FAR) Former featured articles Unreviewed featured articles/2020 Today's featured article (TFA): This month's queue About Today's featured article Recent TFAs and statistics Current TFA requests Potential TFA requests TFA oddities Most viewed TFAs Featured articles yet to appear as TFA Script to track TFA recent changes Featured article tools: Mentoring for FAC Nominators of featured articles promoted Recent changes to featured articles Random featured article << Today's featured articles for February 2023 >> Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 February 1 Crew of STS-107 The Space Shuttle Columbia disaster was a fatal accident in the NASA Space Shuttle program on February 1, 2003. During the launch of the STS-107 mission, foam insulation from the Space Shuttle external tank fell and damaged the thermal protection system of the orbiter. During atmospheric reentry at the end of the mission, the damage allowed hot gases to penetrate the heat shield and destroy the internal wing structure. The orbiter broke apart inflight, killing all seven astronauts on board (crew pictured). Debris was scattered over eastern Texas and Louisiana, and a massive recovery effort was launched to recover debris and crew remains. The accident resulted in a two-year hiatus for the Space Shuttle program, and an investigation into its cause discovered that NASA had become accustomed to insulation foam hitting the orbiter on previous missions. The accident contributed to the eventual cancellation and retirement of the Space Shuttle, which last flew in 2011. (Full article...) Recently featured: Leah LaBelle Black-breasted buttonquail Panzer Dragoon Saga Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch February 2 Bathymetric relief map of Resolution Guyot Resolution Guyot, formerly known as Huevo, is a guyot (tablemount) in the underwater Mid-Pacific Mountains. It is a circular flat mountain, rising 500 metres (1,600 ft) above the seafloor to a depth of about 1,320 metres (4,330 ft), with a summit platform 35 kilometres (22 mi) wide. The Mid-Pacific Mountains lie west of Hawaii and northeast of the Marshall Islands, but at the time of its formation the guyot was located in the Southern Hemisphere, by a hotspot in today's French Polynesia. Plate tectonics shifted it to its present-day location, and the Easter, Marquesas, Pitcairn and Society hotspots may have been involved in the formation of Resolution Guyot. Volcanic activity has been dated to have occurred 107 to 129 million years ago and formed a volcanic island that was subsequently flattened by erosion. The platform emerged above sea level at one point before eventually drowning for reasons still unknown, with thermal subsidence lowering it further to its present depth. (Full article...) Recently featured: Space Shuttle Columbia disaster Leah LaBelle Black-breasted buttonquail Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch February 3 HMS Argus was a British aircraft carrier that served in the Royal Navy from 1918 to 1944. Converted from an ocean liner, she became the first example of the standard pattern of aircraft carriers, with a full-length flight deck allowing aircraft to take off and land. The ship was involved for several years in the development of the optimum design for other aircraft carriers. She spent one brief deployment on the China Station in the late 1920s before being placed in reserve. Argus was recommissioned and partially modernised shortly before the Second World War. In July 1940 she made the first of her many ferry trips to fly off fighters to Malta. In 1942 she was pressed into front-line service despite her lack of speed and armament. She provided air cover during the invasion of French North Africa and was slightly damaged by a bomb. Argus was used again for deck-landing practice until September 1944. She became an accommodation ship in December, was sold in late 1946 and was scrapped in 1947. (Full article...) Recently featured: Resolution Guyot Space Shuttle Columbia disaster Leah LaBelle Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch February 4 Hot Chip performing in 2016 Made in the Dark is the third studio album by English indietronica band Hot Chip (pictured), released on 4 February 2008 through EMI Records internationally and Astralwerks and DFA Records in the United States. A defining feature of the 13-track album is the strong presence of romantic ballads. Alexis Taylor, the main contributor to the lyrics, felt that feelings of love and happiness, partly the result of his recent marriage, had contributed to the album's romantic tone. The title track was described as "sublime" by one critic. Songs such as "Ready for the Floor" and "Bendable Poseable" were noted by critics to be reminiscent of the band's previous release, The Warning. Some critics felt that Made in the Dark lacked focus and contained too many varied elements. The album peaked at number four on the UK Albums Chart, and entered at number 109 on the U.S. Billboard 200. Several singles were released from the album, including "Shake a Fist", "Ready for the Floor", and "One Pure Thought". (Full article...) Recently featured: HMS Argus (I49) Resolution Guyot Space Shuttle Columbia disaster Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch February 5 First page of Beowulf Colin Robert Chase (February 5, 1935 – October 13, 1984) was an American academic. An associate professor of English at the University of Toronto, he was known for his contributions to the studies of Old English and Anglo-Latin literature. His father was a newspaper executive and his mother, Mary Chase, was a playwright who won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama. His best-known work, The Dating of Beowulf, challenged the accepted consensus as to when the Anglo-Saxon poem Beowulf (page pictured) was created; it left behind what was described in A Beowulf Handbook as "a cautious and necessary incertitude". Chase was also known for writing Two Alcuin Letter-Books, a scholarly collection of 24 letters by the 8th-century scholar Alcuin. He also contributed to the Dictionary of the Middle Ages and wrote the Beowulf section of "This Year's Work in Old English Studies" for the Old English Newsletter for nearly a decade. (Full article...) Recently featured: Made in the Dark HMS Argus (I49) Resolution Guyot Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch February 6 Rhea Seddon (born 1947) is an American surgeon and retired astronaut for NASA. After being selected as part of the first group of NASA astronauts to include women in 1978, she flew on three Space Shuttle flights, as mission specialist on STS-51-D and STS-40, and as payload commander for STS-58, accumulating over 722 hours in space. On these flights, she built repair tools for a US Navy satellite and performed medical experiments. A graduate of the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of Tennessee College of Medicine, Seddon was awarded her doctor of medicine degree in 1973. During her residency with the University of Tennessee hospitals, she was the only woman in the General Surgery Residency Program. Before, during and after her career in the astronaut program, she worked in hospital emergency departments. She retired from NASA in November 1997 and became Chief Medical Officer of the Vanderbilt Medical Group. (Full article...) Recently featured: Colin Robert Chase Made in the Dark HMS Argus (I49) Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch February 7 First page of the manuscript Jesus nahm zu sich die Zwölfe ('Jesus gathered the Twelve to Himself'), BWV 22, is a church cantata by Johann Sebastian Bach, written for the last Sunday before Lent. He composed it as an audition piece for the position of director of church music in Leipzig, and he first performed it there in a church service at the Thomaskirche on 7 February 1723. The work begins with a scene from the Gospel in which Jesus predicts his suffering in Jerusalem, and is not understood by his disciples. Bach showed, setting the prescribed text of an unknown poet, that he mastered the composition of a dramatic scene, an expressive aria with obbligato oboe, a recitative with strings, an exuberant dance, and a chorale in the style of Johann Kuhnau, his predecessor in Leipzig. According to the Bach scholar Richard D. P. Jones, several elements of the work such as a "frame of biblical text and chorale around the operatic forms of aria and recitative" became standards for Bach's Leipzig cantatas and even his Passions. (Full article...) Recently featured: Rhea Seddon Colin Robert Chase Made in the Dark Archive By email More featured articles About view talk edit history watch February 8 Poynter Court, site of the siege, as seen in 2022 The Northolt siege was a hostage situation which developed in Northolt, West London, on 25 December 1985. After a domestic dispute, Errol Walker forced entry into his sister-in-law's flat in Poynter Court (pictured). He killed the woman, keeping her daughter and his own daughter hostage. He released his daughter, but held the other girl hostage. After more than a day, he ventured onto the communal balcony to pick up an abandoned riot shield. Armed officers tried to intercept him but he made it back to the flat. They threw stun grenades through the windows, their first use by British police, and climbed through th contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 84 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Today%27s_featured_article/February_2023 responseCode 3 200 