hcncmcroestocaqkrmpmuqpijglkeqskekbqzkam length 5 68013 page 2569 Index of articles associated with the same name For other uses, see Ulcer (disambiguation). This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources. Find sources: "Ulcer" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2022) Look up ulcer, ulcus, ulcerate, or ulceration in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Medical condition Ulcers Gastric ulcer An ulcer is a discontinuity or break in a bodily membrane that impedes normal function of the affected organ. According to Robbins's pathology, "ulcer is the breach of the continuity of skin, epithelium or mucous membrane caused by sloughing out of inflamed necrotic tissue."[citation needed] Common forms of ulcers recognized in medicine include:[citation needed] Ulcer (dermatology), a discontinuity of the skin or a break in the skin. Pressure ulcers, also known as bedsores Genital ulcer, an ulcer located on the genital area Ulcerative dermatitis, a skin disorder associated with bacterial growth often initiated by self-trauma Anal fissure, an ulcer or tear near the anus or within the rectum Diabetic foot ulcer, a major complication of the diabetic foot Callous ulcer, a chronic nonhealing ulcer with hard indurated base and inelastic margins Corneal ulcer, an inflammatory or infective condition of the cornea Mouth ulcer, an open sore inside the mouth. Aphthous ulcer, a specific type of oral ulcer also known as a canker sore Peptic ulcer, a discontinuity of the gastrointestinal mucosa (stomach ulcer)[1] Venous ulcer, a wound thought to occur due to improper functioning of valves in the veins Stress ulcer, an ulcer located within the stomach and proximal duodenum Ulcerative sarcoidosis, a cutaneous condition affecting people with sarcoidosis Ulcerative lichen planus, a rare variant of lichen planus Ulcerative colitis, a form of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Ulcerative disposition, a disorder or discomfort that causes severe abdominal distress, often associated with chronic gastritis References[edit] ^ "Definition & Facts for Peptic Ulcers (Stomach Ulcers) | NIDDK". National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. Retrieved 14 July 2022. Classification D MeSH: D014456 Index of articles associated with the same name This article includes a list of related items that share the same name (or similar names). If an internal link incorrectly led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 39 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Ulcer responseCode 3 200 