hcuaomdgmedkcklmpspojiwokijklouetefmugse length 6 124903 page 10036 New Directions Publishing 80 8th Avenue, headquarters of New Directions Publishing. Founded 1936 Founder James Laughlin Country of origin United States Headquarters location New York City Distribution W. W. Norton & Company Publication types Books Fiction genres translation, experimental poetry Official website ndbooks.com New Directions Publishing Corp. is an independent book publishing company that was founded in 1936 by James Laughlin (1914-1997)[1] and incorporated in 1964. Its offices are located at 80 Eighth Avenue in New York City.[2] History[edit] New Directions was born in 1936 of Ezra Pound's advice to the young James Laughlin, then a Harvard University sophomore, to "do something useful" after finishing his studies at Harvard.[3] The first projects to come out of New Directions were anthologies of new writing, each titled New Directions in Poetry and Prose (until 1966's NDPP 19). Early writers incorporated in these anthologies include Dylan Thomas, Marianne Moore, Wallace Stevens, Thomas Merton, Denise Levertov, James Agee, and Lawrence Ferlinghetti. New Directions later broadened their focus to include writing of all genres, representing not only American writing, but also a considerable amount of literature in translation from modernist authors around the world. New Directions also published the early work of many writers including Ezra Pound and William Carlos Williams, and Tennessee Williams was published as a poet for the very first time in a New Directions poetry collection. Laughlin also initiated a number of thematic series and publications. The New Directions "Poet of the Month" series consisted of thin volumes of either lengthy individual poems or small collections of poems by one author were released on a monthly basis to subscribers, and a larger "Poet of the Year" volume was issued once annually. The series were discontinued after a few years. "Directions" began in 1941 as a quarterly soft-bound journal, with each edition dedicated to a single author or work in prose. Early issues included a collection of short stories by Vladimir Nabokov and a play by William Carlos Williams. The subscription model did not take hold, and later editions in the series were published in more traditional form and sold as individual works to the general public. Another short-lived New Directions periodical, Pharos, was discontinued after its fourth number was published in the winter of 1947. Other notable undertakings include the New Classics and Modern Readers series, which reissued recent books that had gone out of print. These reprints included such works as Exiles and Stephen Hero by James Joyce and The Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald.[4] After Laughlin's death, New Directions Publishing became owned by a trust established in his will.[5] Jacket design and colophon[edit] After the time of World War II, New Directions developed a close relationship with the artist Alvin Lustig, who designed modernist abstract book jackets. Lustig was ultimately responsible for developing a distinctive style of dust jacket that served as a New Directions hallmark for many years. The company's colophon is a figure of a centaur based upon a sculpture by Heinz Henghes, and usually appears on the spine of New Directions books. Presidents[edit] James Laughlin Griselda Ohannessian Peggy Fox Barbara Epler Awards[edit] In 1977, New Directions was presented with a Carey Thomas Award special citation for distinguished publishing in experimental literature. New Directions' authors have won numerous national and international awards, including the: Nobel Prize[6][edit] Tomas Tranströmer, 2011 Octavio Paz, 1990 Camilo José Cela, 1989 Elias Canetti, 1981 Eugenio Montale, 1975 Pablo Neruda, 1971 Yasunari Kawabata, 1968 Jean-Paul Sartre, 1964 Saint-John Perse, 1960 Boris Pasternak, 1958 Andre Gide, 1947 Hermann Hesse, 1946 Frédéric Mistral, 1904 Pulitzer Prize[7][edit] Hilton Als, 2017 Gary Snyder, 1975 George Oppen, 1969 Richard Eberhart, 1966 William Carlos Williams, 1963 Tennessee Williams, 1948, 1955 Robert Penn Warren, 1947, 1958, 1979 National Book Award[edit] Yoko Tawada, 2018 Nathaniel Mackey, 2006 MacArthur Foundation Fellowship[8][edit] John Keene, 2018 Peter Cole, 2007 Lydia Davis, 2003 Anne Carson, 2000 Guy Davenport, 1990 Allen Grossman, 1989 Walter Abish, 1987 PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction[9][edit] Toby Olson, 1983 Prix Goncourt[edit] Mathias Énard, 2015 Eugène Guillevic, 1988 Emile Ajar, 1975 Romain Gary, 1956 Man Booker International Prize[edit] Laszlo Krasznahorkai / George Szirtes and Ottilie Mulzet, 2015 Independent Foreign Fiction Prize[edit] Jenny Erpenbeck / Susan Bernofsky, 2015 Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize[10][edit] Denise Levertov, 1976 Bollingen Prize in American Poetry[11][edit] Nathaniel Mackey, 2015 Susan Howe, 2011 Allen Grossman, 2009 Robert Creeley, 1999 Gary Snyder, 1997 Robert Penn Warren, 1967 Robert Fitzgerald, 1961 Delmore Schwartz, 1960 Ezra Pound, 1948 Robert Frost Medal[edit] Susan Howe, 2017 Kamau Brathwaite, 2015 Lawrence Ferlinghetti, 2003 Denise Levertov, 1999 James Laughlin, 1999 Robert Creeley, 1987 Windham-Campbell Literature Prize[edit] John Keene, 2018 Hilton Als, 2016 Vilenica Kristal Prize[12][edit] Luljeta Lleshanaku, 2009 Current projects[edit] The current focus of New Directions is threefold: discovering and introducing to the US contemporary international writers; publishing new and experimental American poetry and prose; and reissuing New Directions' classic titles in new editions. Drawing from the tradition of the early anthologies and series, New Directions launched the Pearl series, which presents short works by New Directions writers in slim, minimalist volumes designed by Rodrigo Corral. Recent additions to the series include On Booze by F. Scott Fitzgerald and The Leviathan by Joseph Roth.[6] New Directions also publishes a selection of academic reading guides to accompany a number of their books, including Hermann Hesse's Siddhartha and The Night of the Iguana by Tennessee Williams.[7] Authors[edit] New Directions was the first American publisher of such notables as Vladimir Nabokov, Jorge Luis Borges, and Henry Miller. Today, their authors include: American literature Walter Abish Will Alexander John Allman Sherwood Anderson Wayne Andrews David Antin Paul Auster Jimmy Santiago Baca Djuna Barnes Lee Bartlett Kay Boyle William Bronk Frederick Busch Hayden Carruth Tom Clark Peter Cole Cid Corman Gregory Corso Robert Creeley Guy Davenport Edward Dahlberg Helen DeWitt Debra Di Blasi H.D. Coleman Dowell Robert Duncan Richard Eberhart William Everson Lawrence Ferlinghetti Thalia Field F. Scott Fitzgerald Robert Fitzgerald Forrest Gander John Gardner Allen Grossman John Hawkes David Hinton Susan Howe Henry James Robinson Jeffers Mary Karr Bob Kaufman Alvin Levin Denise Levertov Nathaniel Mackey Bernadette Mayer Carole Maso Michael McClure Thomas Merton Joyce Carol Oates Charles Olson Toby Olson George Oppen Michael Palmer Kenneth Patchen Ezra Pound[13] Kenneth Rexroth William Saroyan Delmore Schwartz Frederic Tuten Rosmarie Waldrop Robert Penn Warren Eliot Weinberger Nathanael West Tennessee Williams William Carlos Williams Louis Zukofsky Central American, South American, and Caribbean literature César Aira (Argentina) Martín Adán (Peru) Homero Aridjis (Mexico) Roberto Bolaño (Chile) Jorge Luis Borges (Argentina) Kamau Brathwaite (Barbados) Coral Bracho (México) Ernesto Cardenal (Nicaragua) Adolfo Bioy Casares (Argentina) Horacio Castellanos Moya (El Salvador) Julio Cortázar (Argentina) Felisberto Hernández (Uruguay) Vicente Huidobro (Chile) Enrique Lihn (Chile) Clarice Lispector (Brazil) Pablo Neruda (Chile) Nicanor Parra (Chile) Octavio Paz (Mexico) René Philoctète (Haiti) Rodrigo Rey Rosa (Guatemala) Guillermo Rosales (Cuba) Evelio Rosero (Colombia) Luis Fernando Verissimo (Brazil) British, Irish, Canadian, and Australian literature Valentine Ackland H. E. Bates Martin Bax Carmel Bird Sir Thomas Browne Edwin Brock Christine Brooke-Rose Basil Bunting Elias Canetti Anne Carson Joyce Cary Douglas Cleverdon Maurice Collis William Empson Caradoc Evans Gavin Ewart Ronald Firbank Henry Green Christopher Isherwood James Joyce B. S. Johnson D. H. Lawrence Hugh MacDiarmid Wilfred Owen Caradog Prichard Herbert Read Peter Dale Scott C. H. Sisson Stevie Smith Muriel Spark Dylan Thomas Charles Tomlinson European literature Germano Almeida (Cape Verde) Corrado Alvaro (Italy) Alfred Andersch (Germany) Guillaume Apollinaire (France) Gennadiy Aygi (Russia) Honoré de Balzac (France) Jacques Barzun (France) Charles Baudelaire (France) Gottfried Benn (Germany) Nina Berberova (Russia) Giuseppe Berto (Italy) Johannes Bobrowski (Germany) Wolfgang Borchert (Germany) Johan Borgen (Norway) Alain Bosquet (France) Mikhail Bulgakov (Russia) Louis-Ferdinand Céline (France) Blaise Cendrars (Switzerland) René Char (France) Inger Christensen (Denmark) Jean Cocteau (France) Alain Daniélou (France) Tibor Déry (Hungary) Eugénio de Andrade (Portugal) Pierre Choderlos de Laclos (France) Madame de La Fayette (France) Eça de Queiroz (Portugal) Tibor Déry (Hungary) Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa (Italy) Édouard Dujardin (France) Jenny Erpenbeck (Germany) Hans Faverey (Netherlands) Gustave Flaubert (France) Romain Gary (France) Wilhelm Genazino (Germany) William Gerhardie (Russia) Goethe (Germany) Nikolai Gogol (Russia) Martin Grzimek (Germany) Henri Guigonnat (France) Eugène Guillevic (France) Lars Gustafsson (Sweden) Knut Hamsun (Norway) Hermann Hesse (Germany) Alfred Jarry (France) Franz Kafka (Germany/Czech Republic) Heinrich von Kleist (Germany) Alexander Kluge (Germany) László Krasznahorkai (Hungary) Dezső Kosztolányi (Hungary) Miroslav Krleža (Yugoslavia) Siegfried Lenz (Germany) Luljeta Lleshanaku (Albania) Federico García Lorca (Spain) Stéphane Mallarmé (France) Javier Marías (Spain) Henri Michaux (France) Frédéric Mistral (France) Eugenio Montale (Italy) Vladimir Nabokov (Russia) Boris Pasternak (Russia) Vic contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/New_Directions_Publishing responseCode 3 200 