heocmiqskitgceiorknioadoyiwckgpgbidkxaci length 6 217463 page 10052 This is the talk page for discussing improvements to the Skolt Sámi article. This is not a forum for general discussion of the article's subject. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit; get help. Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Article policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Find sources: Google (books · news · scholar · free images · WP refs) · FENS · JSTOR · NYT · TWL This article is of interest to the following WikiProjects: Finland B‑class Mid‑importance Finland portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Finland, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Finland on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.FinlandWikipedia:WikiProject FinlandTemplate:WikiProject FinlandFinland articles B This article has been rated as B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale. Languages C‑class Mid‑importance Language portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Languages, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of languages on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.LanguagesWikipedia:WikiProject LanguagesTemplate:WikiProject Languageslanguage articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale. Etymology The etymology section in this article is within the scope of the Etymology Task Force, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of etymology on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.EtymologyWikipedia:WikiProject Linguistics/EtymologyTemplate:Etymology sectionEtymology articles Missing This article's etymology section has been rated as missing on the task force's quality scale. ??? This article's etymology section has not yet been rated on the task force's importance scale. Endangered languages C‑class This article falls within the scope of WikiProject Endangered languages, a WikiProject interested in improving the encyclopaedic coverage and content of articles related to endangered languages. If you would like to help out, you are welcome to drop by the project page and/or leave a query at the project's talk page.Endangered languagesWikipedia:WikiProject Endangered languagesTemplate:WikiProject Endangered languagesEndangered languages articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Daily pageviews of this article A graph should have been displayed here but graphs are temporarily disabled. Until they are enabled again, visit the interactive graph at pageviews.wmcloud.org Etymology and Eastern Sámi vs. Skolt Sámi[edit] If anyone knows the etymology of 'Skolt' in 'Skolt Sami', please add it to the article or write something about it here. The word Skolt is derived from the Swedish (or Norwegian) word skalle ’skull’. Many Skolt Sami people used to have no hair probably because of a skin desease. --Hippophaë 01:27, 1 November 2005 (UTC)Reply[reply] The word "skolt" is probably derived from Skandinavian "skalle"(skull). The story about no hair because of skin disease etc, is probably a myth. If it was true, why can we read only about easter-sami men in reports from the area in the 18th and 19th century?, no women withoout hair. A myth probably created by Norwegians and/or Finns when they outnumbered the Eastern-Samis in their own areas, which of course lead to conflicts, if not a myth its probably the following explanation: The Eastern-Sami men cut their hair to make it look like they had a desease. This was to avoid being forced to join the russian army, as the Eastern-Sami area was Norwegian/Russian up to 1826. With their nomadic way of life, several young men being taken away to the army would of course be a huge problem for the eastern-Samis. As might be noticed i have called the groups Esatern-Sami, which is the correct name for both group and language. Skolt is an old name which several Eastern-Sami think of as a negative name and a name placed on them by the oppressors during the assimilation periods through the 19th and 20th century. The Eastern-Samis own name on themselves also means "the eastern people" I beg to differ, what name are you using to refer to "Eastern Sámi" in Skolt Sámi? Sää'mm or sä'mmlaž are the words used by the Skolt to refer to themselves; nuõrti means east. I think you are confusing what the speakers of Northern Sámi use to refer to the Skolt (nuortalaš) with what they call themselves. I have never in my life heard Skolt call themselves nuõrttsää'mm. This also seems to be the predominant way of referring to oneself amongst all of the Sámi: each group refers to themselves as being "sámi" and then provides other names for the other groups. -Yupik 21:47, 13 June 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply] Yes you are right i mixed there, anyway the point is still the same:The Eastern-Samis (all i know of at least, which are quite a few) prefer to be called Eastern-Sami, not Skolt, as they feel Skolt is a negative word. When they do so them selves the rest of us should respect that. but maybe this differs between Eastern-Samis in different countries? It is also natural that the Eastern-Sami want to add Eastern when translating their name as it would otherwise not say anything about what Sami group they are. Two things should be noted here. First, one can't just change established ethnonyms at a whim; the fact remains that Skolt Sami is the only commonly known name for this Sami people and their language. Second, it would be just confusing and incorrect to use the term Eastern Sami instead of Skolt Sami, because this is an already established term with a different meaning. While the Skolt Sami people are Eastern Sami, so are the Kildin Sami and the few remaining Ter Sami on the Kola Peninsula as well. So one cannot just equate Skolt Sami with Eastern Sami. --AAikio 06:40, 10 August 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply] To the above reply: You say that Skolt Sami is the o n l y commonly known name for this group. This is simply not true, I have a feeling you refer to the only commonly known name of this group in Finland. In Norway, you might like to know, the commonly and official name is Eastern Sami (The old name was Skolt, but it has been removed as the Eastern Samis them selves dont want to be called that as they think the names bears much negativeness with it, that is what should be respected when it comes to name policy. To make comparissons we no longer call the native population on Greenland Eskimos, we call them Inuits and we no longer call samis lapps. The fact that you point out Eastern Samis as confusing since it also includes Ter and Kildin makes me even more cirtain the "only commonly known names" you refer to is Finish naming policy as they are in for example Norway called Ter Kildin and Eastern samis and have no name "together" This is an English-langauge Wikipedia and there is no tradition whatsoever of calling the Skolt Sami "Eastern Sami" or anything similar in English. Moreover, "Eastern Sami" is already an established linguistic term referring to a subgroup of Sami languages, including Inari, Skolt, Kildin and Ter Sami, as well as extinct Akkala Sami. (Note that I never said it was an ethnonym - I suppose that this is what you are referring to by saying that "they are in for example Norway called Ter Kildin and Eastern samis and have no name "together""). Using the term "Eastern Sami" instead of "Skolt Sami" would contradict the established terminology and only create confusion. --AAikio 10:11, 16 August 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply] Is Skolt Sámi called "Eastern Sámi" in parts of Norway where there would be no interference from Northern Sámi, which does refer to Skolt as "Eastern Sámi". But as Ante said above, this is an English-language wikipedia and as such, has no bearing on the subject on this wikipedia as the Skolt do not refer to themselves as nuõrttsää'mm, i.e., "eastern sami". -Yupik 07:07, 23 August 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply] Skolt sami isnt called Eastern Sami in parts of Norway, it is the official name of this group in Norway, and it is also the name they use about them selves in Norwegian. What confusion a change of names would make would not be greater than it has been for other groups of idigneous peoples whos been renamed. It probably created some problems for some when it became normal to call samis samis and not laps.... i understand that they are called skolts here, as it is a english wiki, anyway i wanted to raise this discussion because once again at least the majority of the norwegian eastern-samis dont want to be called skolt. What the Finish and Russian eastern-samis want or do not want to be called i do not know. Nuortalazzak is the Eastern Samis own name, meaning the eastern people In the hope that this talk isn't all closed yet: Could Skolt/Kolt and Kildin have something to do with Balto-Slavic Kol (sun) that gave (or so I've read) it's name to the Kola peninsula? Or could it be related to the word for language http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%C7%A9i%C3%B5ll? --Karen.mulders (talk) 13:40, 3 January 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply] Extinct in Norway?[edit] A question about classifying extinct and nearly extinct: when is the language extinct? I think nearly extinct is a better therm on the situation in Norway than extinct. To my knowledge, today in Njauddâm (on the Norwegian side) there is at least one speaker living who moved there from Čeve´tjäu´rr. Michael.riessler (talk) 16:45, 1 September 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply] Number of Skolt Saami speakers in Russia[ed contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 54 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:Skolt_S%C3%A1mi responseCode 3 200 