hiscrkzqgascoascxcsmwicacktgdibsogvqecai length 6 210222 page 10057 Mathematical set with some added structure For other uses, see Space (disambiguation). In mathematics, a space is a set (sometimes called a universe) with some added structure. While modern mathematics uses many types of spaces, such as Euclidean spaces, linear spaces, topological spaces, Hilbert spaces, or probability spaces, it does not define the notion of "space" itself.[1][a] Fig. 1: Overview of types of abstract spaces. An arrow indicates is also a kind of; for instance, a normed vector space is also a metric space. A space consists of selected mathematical objects that are treated as points, and selected relationships between these points. The nature of the points can vary widely: for example, the points can be elements of a set, functions on another space, or subspaces of another space. It is the relationships that define the nature of the space. More precisely, isomorphic spaces are considered identical, where an isomorphism between two spaces is a one-to-one correspondence between their points that preserves the relationships. For example, the relationships between the points of a three-dimensional Euclidean space are uniquely determined by Euclid's axioms,[b] and all three-dimensional Euclidean spaces are considered identical. Topological notions such as continuity have natural definitions in every Euclidean space. However, topology does not distinguish straight lines from curved lines, and the relation between Euclidean and topological spaces is thus "forgetful". Relations of this kind are treated in more detail in the Section "Types of spaces". It is not always clear whether a given mathematical object should be considered as a geometric "space", or an algebraic "structure". A general definition of "structure", proposed by Bourbaki,[2] embraces all common types of spaces, provides a general definition of isomorphism, and justifies the transfer of properties between isomorphic structures. History[edit] See also: History of geometry and Geometry § History Table 1 | Historical development of mathematical concepts Classic Modern axioms are obvious implications of definitions axioms are conventional theorems are absolute objective truth theorems are implications of the corresponding axioms relationships between points, lines etc. are determined by their nature relationships between points, lines etc. are essential; their nature is not mathematical objects are given to us with their structure each mathematical theory describes its objects by some of their properties geometry corresponds to an experimental reality geometry is a mathematical truth all geometric properties of the space follow from the axioms axioms of a space need not determine all geometric properties geometry is an autonomous and living science classical geometry is a universal language of mathematics space is three-dimensional different concepts of dimension apply to different kind of spaces space is the universe of geometry spaces are just mathematical structures, they occur in various branches of mathematics Before the golden age of geometry[edit] Fig. 2: Homothety transforms a geometric figure into a similar one by scaling. In ancient Greek mathematics, "space" was a geometric abstraction of the three-dimensional reality observed in everyday life. About 300 BC, Euclid gave axioms for the properties of space. Euclid built all of mathematics on these geometric foundations, going so far as to define numbers by comparing the lengths of line segments to the length of a chosen reference segment. The method of coordinates (analytic geometry) was adopted by René Descartes in 1637.[3] At that time, geometric theorems were treated as absolute objective truths knowable through intuition and reason, similar to objects of natural science;[4]: 11  and axioms were treated as obvious implications of definitions.[4]: 15  Two equivalence relations between geometric figures were used: congruence and similarity. Translations, rotations and reflections transform a figure into congruent figures; homotheties — into similar figures. For example, all circles are mutually similar, but ellipses are not similar to circles. A third equivalence relation, introduced by Gaspard Monge in 1795, occurs in projective geometry: not only ellipses, but also parabolas and hyperbolas, turn into circles under appropriate projective transformations; they all are projectively equivalent figures. The relation between the two geometries, Euclidean and projective,[4]: 133  shows that mathematical objects are not given to us with their structure.[4]: 21  Rather, each mathematical theory describes its objects by some of their properties, precisely those that are put as axioms at the foundations of the theory.[4]: 20  Distances and angles cannot appear in theorems of projective geometry, since these notions are neither mentioned in the axioms of projective geometry nor defined from the notions mentioned there. The question "what is the sum of the three angles of a triangle" is meaningful in Euclidean geometry but meaningless in projective geometry. A different situation appeared in the 19th century: in some geometries the sum of the three angles of a triangle is well-defined but different from the classical value (180 degrees). Non-Euclidean hyperbolic geometry, introduced by Nikolai Lobachevsky in 1829 and János Bolyai in 1832 (and Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1816, unpublished)[4]: 133  stated that the sum depends on the triangle and is always less than 180 degrees. Eugenio Beltrami in 1868 and Felix Klein in 1871 obtained Euclidean "models" of the non-Euclidean hyperbolic geometry, and thereby completely justified this theory as a logical possibility.[4]: 24 [5] This discovery forced the abandonment of the pretensions to the absolute truth of Euclidean geometry. It showed that axioms are not "obvious", nor "implications of definitions". Rather, they are hypotheses. To what extent do they correspond to an experimental reality? This important physical problem no longer has anything to do with mathematics. Even if a "geometry" does not correspond to an experimental reality, its theorems remain no less "mathematical truths".[4]: 15  A Euclidean model of a non-Euclidean geometry is a choice of some objects existing in Euclidean space and some relations between these objects that satisfy all axioms (and therefore, all theorems) of the non-Euclidean geometry. These Euclidean objects and relations "play" the non-Euclidean geometry like contemporary actors playing an ancient performance. Actors can imitate a situation that never occurred in reality. Relations between the actors on the stage imitate relations between the characters in the play. Likewise, the chosen relations between the chosen objects of the Euclidean model imitate the non-Euclidean relations. It shows that relations between objects are essential in mathematics, while the nature of the objects is not. The golden age of geometry and afterwards [edit] The word "geometry" (from Ancient Greek: geo- "earth", -metron "measurement") initially meant a practical way of processing lengths, regions and volumes in the space in which we live, but was then extended widely (as well as the notion of space in question here). According to Bourbaki,[4]: 131  the period between 1795 (Géométrie descriptive of Monge) and 1872 (the "Erlangen programme" of Klein) can be called "the golden age of geometry". The original space investigated by Euclid is now called three-dimensional Euclidean space. Its axiomatization, started by Euclid 23 centuries ago, was reformed with Hilbert's axioms, Tarski's axioms and Birkhoff's axioms. These axiom systems describe the space via primitive notions (such as "point", "between", "congruent") constrained by a number of axioms. Analytic geometry made great progress and succeeded in replacing theorems of classical geometry with computations via invariants of transformation groups.[4]: 134, 5  Since that time, new theorems of classical geometry have been of more interest to amateurs than to professional mathematicians.[4]: 136  However, the heritage of classical geometry was not lost. According to Bourbaki,[4]: 138  "passed over in its role as an autonomous and living science, classical geometry is thus transfigured into a universal language of contemporary mathematics". Simultaneously, numbers began to displace geometry as the foundation of mathematics. For instance, in Richard Dedekind's 1872 essay Stetigkeit und irrationale Zahlen (Continuity and irrational numbers), he asserts that points on a line ought to have the properties of Dedekind cuts, and that therefore a line was the same thing as the set of real numbers. Dedekind is careful to note that this is an assumption that is incapable of being proven. In modern treatments, Dedekind's assertion is often taken to be the definition of a line, thereby reducing geometry to arithmetic. Three-dimensional Euclidean space is defined to be an affine space whose associated vector space of differences of its elements is equipped with an inner product.[6] A definition "from scratch", as in Euclid, is now not often used, since it does not reveal the relation of this space to other spaces. Also, a three-dimensional projective space is now defined as the space of all one-dimensional subspaces (that is, straight lines through the origin) of a four-dimensional vector space. This shift in foundations requires a new set of axioms, and if these axioms are adopted, the classical axioms of geometry become theorems. A space now consists of selected mathematical objects (for instance, functions on another space, or subspaces of another space, or just elements of a set) treated as points, and selected relationships between these points. Therefore, spaces are just mathematical structures of convenience. One may expect that the structures called "spaces" are perceived more geometrically than other mathematical objects, but this is not always true. According to the famous inaugural lecture gi contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Space_(mathematics) responseCode 3 200 