hissyaseycfilozcccwmwabsuebohkgsksisocwa page 10078 Battle in the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article's lead section may be too short to adequately summarize the key points. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. (November 2023) This article needs to be updated. The reason given is: add in information and link to the second battle. Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (November 2023) (template removal help) You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Ukrainian. (November 2023) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Ukrainian article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 532 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Ukrainian Wikipedia article at [[:uk:Бої за Кремінну]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|uk|Бої за Кремінну}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. Battle of Kreminna Part of the Donbas offensive of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine Date 18–19 April 2022 (1 day) Location Kreminna, Luhansk Oblast, Ukraine 49°3′N 38°13′E﻿ / ﻿49.050°N 38.217°E﻿ / 49.050; 38.217 Result Russian victory Belligerents Russia Luhansk PR Ukraine Units involved Russian Armed Forces LPR People's Militia 11th Separate Guards Motorized Rifle Cossack Battalion[1] 6th Cossack Regiment Ukrainian Armed Forces 128th Mountain Assault Brigade[2] Casualties and losses Unknown Unknown 200 civilians killed (per local officials)[3] Battle of Kreminna class=notpageimage| Location within Ukraine v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia The battle of Kreminna was a military engagement between Russia and Ukraine over the Eastern Ukrainian city of Kreminna. It is regarded as the first battle during the battle of Donbas.[4] Background[edit] Kreminna, a city of 18,000 people, has been a strategic city since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine because it is a passage to Kramatorsk, which is only a 1 hour drive from Kreminna.[5] Battle[edit] On 18 April 2022, Russian forces entered Kreminna, where the Governor of Luhansk Oblast Serhiy Haidai reported that street fights began and that evacuation was not possible. Tanks and other weaponry also entered where civilians were surrounded by Russian troops.[6] Russian forces attacked from all sides, encircling the city.[7] On the evening of 19 April, Haidai reported that the remaining Ukrainian troops withdrew, giving Russian troops full control of the city.[8] Aftermath[edit] Main article: Luhansk Oblast campaign Kreminna was the first city to fall during the Donbas Offensive that was announced by Russia on 18 April.[5] The governor reported that 200 civilians were killed, but there could have been more.[3] Ukrainian officials reported on 25 April that Russian forces were killed in an explosion in the Kreminna City Hall by a gas explosion.[9] See also[edit] List of military engagements during the Russian invasion of Ukraine References[edit] ^ "Mikhail Kishchik". 17 April 2022. ^ "Ukrainian army forces enemy to retreat from Kreminna in Luhansk region". 7 April 2022. ^ a b "Regional governor says Russian forces have seized east Ukrainian city of Kreminna". Reuters.com. 19 April 2022. Retrieved 1 June 2022. ^ "April 18, 2022 Russia-Ukraine news". Amp.cnn.com. 19 April 2022. Retrieved 31 May 2022. ^ a b "Russia's Donbas offensive advances with fall of Kreminna". Amp.france24.com. 19 April 2022. Retrieved 31 May 2022. ^ "Ukraine says Russian forces have entered Kreminna city". Aa.com.tr. 18 April 2022. Retrieved 31 May 2022. ^ "Russian forces capture city of Kreminna, as attacks continue in country's eastern Donbas region - ABC News". Amp.abc.net.au. Retrieved 31 May 2022. ^ Lock, Samantha; Anguiano, Dani; Luscombe, Richard; Chao-Fong, Léonie; Belam, Martin (20 April 2022). "Russian forces seize Kreminna in eastern Ukraine's Donbas region - as it happened". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 14 June 2023. Retrieved 31 May 2022. ^ "Luhansk Military Administration: Russian occupiers and their collaborators die in an explosion in Kreminna City Hall". Pravda.com.ua. 25 April 2022. Retrieved 31 May 2022. v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Part of the Russo-Ukrainian War Overview General Outline Timeline Prelude (February – April 2022) (April – August 2022) (August – November 2022) (November 2022 – June 2023) (June 2023 – August 2023) (September 2023 – present) Aerial warfare Defense lines Foreign fighters Information war Naval warfare Legality Map Order of battle Peace negotiations Proposed no-fly zone Red lines Reparations Territorial control Women Prelude Reactions Disinformation Ukraine bioweapons conspiracy theory Ukraine and weapons of mass destruction 2021 Russia–United States summit 2021 Black Sea incident Belarus–European Union border crisis "On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians" Crimea Platform Zapad 2021 Ukraine cyberattacks Union Resolve 2022 Stanytsia Luhanska kindergarten bombing British–Polish–Ukrainian trilateral pact Evacuation of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Mobilization in Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR "Address concerning the events in Ukraine" "On conducting a special military operation" Background Dissolution of the Soviet Union 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine historical background Annexation of Crimea reactions War in Donbas 2022 timeline Minsk agreements humanitarian situation international recognition of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Putinism Foundations of Geopolitics Novorossiya Ruscism Russian irredentism Russian imperialism Foreign relations Russia–Ukraine Belarus–Ukraine Belarus–Russia Russia–United States Russia–NATO Ukraine–NATO enlargement of NATO eastward expansion controversy in Russia open door policy Military engagements Southern Ukraine Snake Island campaign Siege of Mariupol Battle of Kherson Battle of Melitopol Battle of Mykolaiv Battle of Enerhodar Battles of Voznesensk Battle of Huliaipole Battle of Orikhiv Battle of Davydiv Brid Kherson counteroffensive Liberation of Kherson Dnieper campaign Destruction of the Kakhovka Dam Eastern Ukraine Battle of Avdiivka Battle of Marinka Battle of Volnovakha Battle of Kharkiv Battle of Izium Battle of Rubizhne Battle of Popasna Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Battle of Kreminna Battle of the Siverskyi Donets Battle of Sievierodonetsk Battle of To contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Battle_of_Kreminna responseCode 3 200 