hkdswifmrerozeaenmrguoyadgnkvmlsxinmzkdi length 6 265383 page 10017 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 28 February 2021 00:00, 28 February 2021 (UTC) Washington Bridge ... that the first vehicle on New York City's Washington Bridge (pictured) crossed it without permission? ... that Dick Callahan received his first opportunity as a PA announcer after claiming that he announced all the games at his high school, even though he had actually never announced a game before? ... that the GPT-2 artificial intelligence can summarize, respond to, generate, and translate text, despite being trained to do nothing more than predict the next word in a sequence? ... that, after former president Abdurrahman Wahid, Rusdy Mastura was the second Indonesian public official to apologize for the mass killings of 1965–66? ... that the 1928 recording by Jimmie Rodgers of "Blue Yodel No. 1 (T for Texas)" influenced a line in Johnny Cash's song "Folsom Prison Blues"? ... that Samuel Pepys wrote of Royal Navy Commissioner Sir Thomas Hervey: "a coxcombe he is and will never be better in the business of the Navy"? ... that by 2001, almost 2000 Trees For Life volunteers were growing 1.5 million plants every year? ... that winners of the Kings Royal at Eldora Speedway, such as Shane Stewart, are given a scepter, robe, and crown, and pose on a throne in victory lane? 27 February 2021 00:04, 27 February 2021 (UTC) Wilhelm Knabe ... that Wilhelm Knabe (pictured), a co-founder of the Greens in Germany and a "green" mayor of Mülheim, participated in Fridays For Future with the slogan "Opa For Future"? ... that the 1960 film The Purple Gang has an introduction by Congressman James Roosevelt, son of Franklin D. Roosevelt? ... that the common-law wife of the ninth vice president of the United States was Julia Chinn, an enslaved woman? ... that while Gerry House worked at Kentucky radio station WCBR, the owner, a pastor, asked him whether he wanted to donate his salary? ... that the first cookbook edited by Maria Guarnaschelli helped introduce American cooks to Indian cuisine? ... that 17q12 microdeletion syndrome, an underdiagnosed genetic disorder, is thought to be a major genetic risk factor for autism and schizophrenia? ... that Lee M. Hollander pioneered the translation of the works of the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard into English? ... that the 2010 Football League Two play-off Final at Wembley Stadium was won by "a pub team from Essex"? 26 February 2021 00:04, 26 February 2021 (UTC) Contempra telephone ... that the first telephone designed in Canada, Nortel's Contempra (example pictured), became so famous it was featured on a stamp? ... that at the time of her death at age 90, Lilliane Brady was the mayor of Cobar Shire and the longest-serving female mayor in New South Wales's history? ... that British jazz saxophonist Nubya Garcia's debut album Source, which incorporates reggae, cumbia, calypso, hip-hop, and soul, is an ode to her musical history? ... that Libuše Domanínská, a soprano of Prague's National Theatre, performed in all of Janáček's operas, and a recording she made as his Jenůfa made his works better known beyond their home country? ... that Roy Brown, credited with downing the Red Baron, suffered a serious accident not long after being posted to Marske Aerodrome? ... that in 2019 Joel Farabee became the first player born in the 2000s to become a Philadelphia Flyers player? ... that black-sided flowerpeckers camouflage the outside of their nests with lichens? ... that the Language Integrator is a peep show intended only for inhabitants of the 82nd century to use? 25 February 2021 00:00, 25 February 2021 (UTC) Dileeni Daniel-Selvaratnam ... that Dileeni Daniel-Selvaratnam (pictured), Governor of Anguilla, attended her own swearing-in ceremony remotely due to quarantine restrictions? ... that Ismith Khan's novel The Jumbie Bird explores the transformation of immigrants from India into Indo-Trinidadians? ... that translator and journalist Frederika Randall, who moved from the United States to Italy, identified as a "dispatriate" to distance herself from her homeland? ... that New York City's Western Union Telegraph Building was built on land once owned by Thomas W. Evans, dentist to French emperor Napoleon III? ... that with compositions such as Con brio, clarinetist Jörg Widmann was ranked the third-most-performed contemporary composer in 2018? ... that Tailors' Hall, a surviving guildhall of Dublin, hosted fencing and dancing classes, the United Irishmen and a British Army garrison, Dublin Corporation and an insolvency court? ... that the UConn student body voted 169–7 to fire the basketball coach after he benched Harrison Fitch because a rival team refused to play against an African American? ... that Troy, Montana, has flying squirrels? 24 February 2021 00:00, 24 February 2021 (UTC) Humphrey Bogart in Brother Orchid (1940) ... that after signing his first movie contract, Humphrey Bogart (pictured) boasted: "I'm going to become the biggest movie star Hollywood's ever seen"? ... that American band the Body's album I've Seen All I Need to See opens with a reading of the poem "The Kaleidoscope" by Scottish poet Douglas Dunn? ... that Cajun accordion musician Sheryl Cormier has been named the Cajun Queen in the United States and Europe? ... that when the manga series Antique Bakery was adapted into a live-action television drama in 2001, a character who was gay in the source material was changed to having a fear of women? ... that veterinarian Matt Brash treated some of the owls that appeared in the first Harry Potter film and concluded that they had leukocytozoonosis? ... that as part of the Israel–Morocco normalization agreement, the US agreed to recognize Morocco's claim to Western Sahara? ... that when Imants Lešinskis defected from the Soviet Union while working for the UN in New York, Kofi Annan, future UN secretary-general, complained that he did not show up to work? ... that the medieval Breton Gwerz Santes Enori tells the story of a woman who sacrificed a breast to cure her father, and is rewarded with a golden breast? 23 February 2021 00:00, 23 February 2021 (UTC) George Washington by John Trumbull ... that John Trumbull finished his painting George Washington (pictured) before he was arrested for high treason? ... that the creator of a video depicting the 2021 Myanmar coup d'état, which featured Indonesian politically satirical song "Ampun Bang Jago", denied that it was politically motivated? ... that the American scholar Karen Hellekson published the first book in English devoted to analyzing the alternate history genre? ... that although its range is restricted to the island of Borneo, the mountain blackeye has evolved into four subspecies? ... that the biography of Singapore's first Asian postmaster-general, M. Bala Subramanion, was released at The Fullerton Hotel, the site of the old General Post Office where he had worked for 35 years? ... that Dav Pilkey wrote the children's book The Paperboy, which received a Caldecott Honor, in fifteen minutes? ... that film researcher Lillian Michelson interviewed elderly Jewish women about the appearance of the underwear they wore in the 1890s to develop accurate clothing for Fiddler On The Roof? ... that a commercial for the food delivery app Domino's App feat. Hatsune Miku went viral on YouTube in 2013, and was described by journalists as "bizarre"? 22 February 2021 00:00, 22 February 2021 (UTC) Robert C. Pringle as Chequamegon ... that the tugboat Robert C. Pringle (pictured) was discovered "remarkably intact" 86 years after it sank? ... that Peter Herrmann composed a Second Symphony that prem contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2021/February responseCode 3 200 