hkeeegtgkszaacsevsygykbkiseksoqsagqsiqgs length 6 121326 page 9352 Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:AIM WP:PURPOSE Wikipedia has a lofty goal: a comprehensive collection of all of the knowledge in the world. Wikipedia's purpose is to benefit readers by acting as a widely accessible and free encyclopedia; a comprehensive written compendium that contains information on all branches of knowledge. The goal of a Wikipedia article is to present a neutrally written summary of existing mainstream knowledge in a fair and accurate manner with a straightforward, "just-the-facts style". Articles should have an encyclopedic style with a formal tone instead of essay-like, argumentative, promotional or opinionated writing. Concept of an encyclopedia “ Indeed, the purpose of an encyclopedia is to collect knowledge disseminated around the globe; to set forth its general system to the men with whom we live, and transmit it to those who will come after us, so that the work of preceding centuries will not become useless to the centuries to come; and so that our offspring, becoming better instructed, will at the same time become more virtuous and happy, and that we should not die without having rendered a service to the human race.—Denis Diderot chief editor, and contributor of Encyclopédie (Paris, 1755)[1] ” Wikipedia is intended to be the largest, most comprehensive, and most widely-available encyclopedia ever written “ Our goal with Wikipedia is to create a free encyclopedia; indeed, the largest encyclopedia in history, both in terms of breadth and in terms of depth. We also want Wikipedia to be a reliable resource.—Larry Sanger[2] ” “ Imagine a world in which every single person on the planet is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge. That's what we're doing.—Jimmy Wales[3] ” “ Wikipedia is first and foremost an effort to create and distribute a free encyclopedia of the highest possible quality to every single person on the planet in their own language.—Jimmy Wales[4] ” Wikipedia's content is governed by three principal core content policies - neutral point of view, verifiability, and no original research “ Wikipedia has an important policy: roughly stated, you should write articles without bias, representing all views fairly.—Larry Sanger[5] ” “ A general-purpose encyclopedia is a collection of synthesized knowledge presented from a neutral point of view. To whatever extent possible, encyclopedic writing should steer clear of taking any particular stance other than the stance of the neutral point of view.—Jimmy Wales[6] ” See also[edit] Further information: Wikipedia:Essay directory § About Wikipedia Administration – discusses both the human administrative structure of Wikipedia, as well as its non-human components. The Free Encyclopedia – describes how Wikipedia is "Free" as in Free Software and Free Culture. The essence of Wikipedia – describes how Wikipedia uses collective intelligence, collaboration, and preservation to build, expand, and improve content. Statement of principles – by the co-founder of Wikipedia, Jimmy Wales, as updated by the community since then. What Wikipedia is not – describes how there are certain things that Wikipedia is not. Offline access – describes how to access Wikipedia's free content without internet access. Original Wikipedia policy – as edited by the co-founder of Wikipedia, Larry Sanger, on 1 November 2001. References[edit] ^ Diderot, Denis (1755). Encyclopédie. Vol. 5. Translated by Philip Stewart. Paris. p. 635. University of Michigan Library: Scholarly Publishing Office and DLXS. Retrieved on: November 17, 2007 ^ Sanger, Larry (1 November 2001), Wikipedia Policy, Wikipedia, archived from the original on 11 December 2007 ^ Roblimo (28 July 2004). "Wikipedia Founder Jimmy Wales Responds". Slashdot. Retrieved 28 April 2014. ^ "Wikipedia is an encyclopedia". Wikimedia. 8 March 2005. Retrieved 5 March 2017. ^ "Neutral point of view/draft - Meta". meta.wikimedia.org. ^ "Wikipedia: NeutralPointOfView". 16 April 2001. Archived from the original on 16 April 2001. External links[edit] External videos Jimmy Wales: The birth of Wikipedia, 2005 TED (conference), 20 mins. What is Wikipedia? – The Wikimedia Foundation. Mission statement – The Wikimedia Foundation. Statement of Purpose – Wikimedia Foundation Bylaws Article II . Foundation Guiding Principles – The Wikimedia Foundation. Wikimedia founding principles – Principles generally supported by all of the Wikimedia communities. v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips v t e Wikipedia articles Overview (outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing political editing incidents Criticism Biases gender geographical ideological racial Deletion of articles deletionism and inclusionism notability "Ignore all rules" MediaWiki Plagiarism Predictions of the project's end Reliability Fact-checking Citation needed Vandalism Community (Wikipedians) Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Art+Feminism Bots Lsjbot Edit count List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikimedian of the Year Wikipedian in residence WikiProject Women in Red Events Edit-a-thon Wiki Conference India Wiki Indaba WikiConference North America Wikimania Wiki Loves Earth Folklore Monuments Pride Science People (list) Esra'a Al Shafei Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Maryana Iskander Dariusz Jemielniak Rebecca MacKinnon Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Ira Brad Matetsky Erik Möller Jason Moore Raju Narisetti Steven Pruitt Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lisa Seitz-Gruwell Rosie Stephenson-Goodknight Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales History Bomis Nupedia First edit Logo Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Hillsborough disaster Wikipedia posts VisualEditor #1Lib1Ref 2021 Wikimedia Foundation actions on the Chinese Wikipedia Controversies Essjay controversy Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Seigenthaler biography incident Star Trek Into Darkness debate United States congressional staff edits Zhemao hoaxes Coverage American politics Donald Trump COVID-19 pandemic Russian invasion of Ukraine Honors 274301 Wikipedia Wikipedia Monument References and analysis Academic studies Bibliography Cultural Films Listen to Wikipedia Wikipediocracy Mobile Apps QRpedia Wapedia Wikipedia Zero WikiReader Wikiwand Content use DBpedia Depths of Wikipedia Google and Wikipedia Health information Kiwix Science information Wikimedia Enterprise Related Death and Wikipedia The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs LGBT and Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) People imprisoned for editing Wikipedia Print Wikipedia Viola angustifolia Wiki rabbit hole Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement Wikipedia for World Heritage Wikipedia in India Wikiracing List of online encyclopedias List of wikis List Category contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Purpose responseCode 3 200 