hkgsdiroogbkgqeaeotkzexansbglcsicaserqto page 10015 Wikipedia project page Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Chat Meetups Directories (Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects) If this page has been recently modified, it may not reflect the most recent changes. Please purge this page to view the most recent changes. Welcome to the Wikipedia Dashboard! Shortcut WP:- This page provides an overview of the various discussions and requests taking place throughout English Wikipedia. To ask a question or make a request, see the request directory to locate the appropriate venue(s). For a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news, see the Community portal. Centralized discussion Village pumps policy tech proposals idea lab WMF misc Nominations for the Arbitration Committee elections Splitting close reviews from the Administrators' Noticeboard Requiring disclosure for admin paid advising For a listing of ongoing discussions, see the dashboard. view edit history watch archive talk purge Editorial noticeboards BLP noticeboard (23 threads) Most recent: Francine Diaz Susan Sarandon Sharon Douglas actress Alan Bates Jeffrey Toobin Bennett S. LeBow Sam Altman GeorgeNotFound Falun Gong Rick Alan Ross Kurt Busch Dominic Foppoli Repeated anon vandalism Venkataraman Thangadurai Joseph Massad (protected article) Anna Oleksandrivna Katrulina Fan Xiaoqin SSSniperWolf Matt Taylor (scientist) Assistance please Richard Gartner Jake Wallis Simons Brian Sims Fringe theories noticeboard (22 threads) Most recent: Muscovy duck Lyndon Larouche publications used as references Kurds are ethnic Iranians Rick Alan Ross Study: Why Wikipedia is the Last Good Website Disputes at Falun Gong Etzel Cardeña Discussion on merging content boards Mantell UFO incident Biomesotherapy "The most ancient settlements in Epirus date to the Middle Paleolithic" "There's a cabal" Steve Fuller (sociologist) Richat Structure and Atlantis (again) Is the lab leak at all racist? (episode 94) Jeremy Griffith Seemingly reliable Wiley publication promoting archaeological nonsense concerning Gunung Padang Shivapuri Baba Gurdon light Robert M. Schoch‎ Anthroposophy#Religious nature Galactic Federation (ufology) Original research noticeboard (13 threads) Most recent: SpaceX Starship Second Integrated Flight Test Verifiability of Anti-cosmopolitan campaign Discussion on merging content boards Legality of Isreali settlements synthesis Israel lobby in the United Kingdom Strictly Come Dancing (series 21) Intel 7, 10nm/7nm process Antisemitism and the New Testament British possession Odd heads of state visit lists emerging List of Marvel Cinematic Universe Television Series: Adventure into Fear Adding parts not found in the cited source Draft:Environmental issues in Brunei - OR or not? Reliable sources noticeboard (24 threads) Most recent: GNIS for "populated place" list entries NGO Freedom House citing Falun Gong sources (Epoch Times, etc.) DraftHistory.com 911truth.org Boyd Petersen book review GNIS regurgitators WhatCulture 1960s & 1970s sources for "Kurds are an Iranian ethnic group" ww2gravestone.com Sources used on David wood article. The Daily Signal Palestinian Information Center; Hamas run? Is OEIS reliable for this use? angela goethals Dendy Media References in Sacking of Burhanpur (1681) enca.com NewsClick (Indian Online news portal) Washington Independent Is PCMag a reliable source? Al Jazeera - 2023 RfC: Correo del Orinoco (Orinoco Tribune) Al-Mayadeen RfC: Venezuelanalysis Neutral point of view noticeboard (28 threads) Most recent: POV: The Next Generation Guarimba Thaksin Shinawatra ,The prisoner who is serving his time in jail at this moment Allegations of genocide of Ukrainians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine Brazen POV at March for Israel Israeli nationalist groups One-sided spin-off/duplication of human shields content Kurds "Iranian ethnic group" RFC Discussion on merging content boards Cooman :Western Sahara has an RFC Purusha Sukta Move discussion needs input RfC: Should the first mention of the Gaza Health Ministry disclose that the same is a subagency of Hamas? Guerilla Skepticism on Wikipedia project (GSoW) Women's Rights Party Help needed at 1819 News Jackson Hinkle The Movie Killdozer AARP Talk:Apollo program#‎Conspiracy theories Al Jazeera Attributing casualties at 2023 Israel–Hamas war Including Israel as a possible culprit at Al-Ahli Arab Hospital explosion Content removal regarding white supremacy Ibram X. Kendi Criticism of Scientific American sourced to Twitter Landmark Worldwide External links noticeboard (7 threads) Most recent: :Find a Grave as an External link discussion (on the Perennial source Talk page) Template:IETF RFC Medium.com palestine-family.net Steven Eric Spector Glossary of French criminal law Encyclopaedia Metallum Conflict of interest noticeboard (17 threads) Most recent: Aptera Protocol: COI edit requests w/o references I was left off the Barney and Friends TV show list of composers. World almas User WaftCinematic Anne Kabagambe Asiana Airlines/Korean Air Merger A first? Wiki Ed professor has students writing her own bio Eaccbro Laurence D. Marks self-edits Renaissance Community Radhika Rao Trying to figure out, do I really have COI Open Knowledge Association Repeated WP:SELFCITE by User:Alex pereira de araujo Wolf Theiss Citing one one's article Dispute resolution noticeboard (5 threads) Most recent: nurse practitioner Horst Wessel Helms Amendment to the Foreign Assistance Act Sergei Bortkiewicz Re'im music festival massacre Back to contents Help noticeboards Help desk (49 threads) Most recent: List of Italian dishes Error on creating Template Any way to know where (sanitized) page hits come from? Account recovery How do I change the title of an article? I found possible content change without agreement in Hydrogen Regarding Aubri Ibrag Template code Citing author names "Agri Valley" or "Agri valley"? In the "Area of production" paragraph (at the end of the paragraph) of the "Peperone di Senise" page Is it rude to remove superfluous references? Rollback vs Twinkle Sara Marques Correct grammar for ellipses turned into semicolons Spaghetti alla Nerano Fixing a reference I'm tanoli and I have read many historic books of tanoli and ghilji and it confirmed that tanoli is tano khail which is ghilji tribe @User:Tenryuu, User:Hoary, User:Folly Mox, and more volunteers, would you mind replacing the main page of WikiLeaks please? How to write a new LPW Living Person Wiki Martineau family Question about non free images Eχιδνα Honours Martineau family Capitalize X Minister in title for Categories by country? Martineau family Can I create a biography Articles written by AI Editing my watchlist? Election infobox Archiving my talk page My Watchlist has changed Recovering a previous account Citing one source via another Fix the Chinese Hockey Player Liu Chunhua Arek Smith Submission of Georgios Dritsakos Do you think you should add a pronounciation of Sodium? Creating a reference. The general bias of Wikipedia to the left harv error "Thank" error Removing infobox map Window Dressers G11 an extremely stale user sandbox? Oldest article with only one editor? Why my edits are getting removed? Page mover/swapper needed here! Cory Markum Media copyright questions (9 threads) Most recent: Is this image suitable for non-free use, or is it in the public domain? Trevor Rainbolt image taken by Jack Bool Trubia A4 file removal from page Jo Lindner screenshot from Bradley Martyn`s RawTalk Use of non-free image on more than one page Discussion at File talk:Royal Military College Duntroon badge.gif § ‎I believe this image is in the Public Domain and should be changed to CC0 File:Chirped pulse amplification.png File:EAJ-PNV logo.svg MissingNo. Teahouse (34 threads) Most recent: WikiLove Is this a reliable source? ChatGPT Citing a non-English translation of another foreign language How can I search a GA article by any particular category I wish? My page was rejected Page creation Draft url can be changed? Help? Pind Sharif Dargah I ANT TO OPEN A PAGE FOR ME BUT CAN'T GIVE THE DIRECT LINK I CON'T GET THE RIGHT LINK Blocked New Artist Page Adding photos of people I have a COI with .svg download Wikiprojects in regards to Looking for some help identifying errors in my draft. First article: getting my references right Copyedits formal tone My article has been reviewed, what does this mean? addiction How do I switch from source editing to visual editing in Wikipedia:Sandbox? Is Chaotic a neutral adjective? Karasuma Street Article Question about "articletopic:" New User Hoplite article Urgent Assistance Needed: Conflict of Interest Disclosure Process Photograph of headteacher at Dumfries High School external links: URLs that were broken due to editing errors Finding a word Back to contents Village pump Village Pump (policy) (12 threads) Most recent: Utterly badly sourced business articles RfC on WP:GEOLAND and local history Policies for reducing frivolous complaints RFA process reformation The person who is the subject of a wiki page should have the right to have their page removed Article subject potentially directing the content of article RfC: Standardizing ISBN formatting (and an end to editwarring about it) Should the precautionary principle be policy? Creating a new Close review page (CLRV/RFCRV) to be split from AN School districts and GEOLAND RfC on the "Airlines and destinations" tables in airport articles Admins and being paid to advise on editing Village Pump (technical) (31 threads) Most recent: Creating json pages SIZESPLIT but for Village pumps Purge API seems to still be broken Bot authorization question Book Citation - Ref Tool Bar Visibility of changes on mobile Problem with map on Inner Loop (Rochester) Dated maintenance categories "as of" the future or the past Image replaced and removed White text on transparent background Technical puzzle looking for someone to solve Template interface for visual editor: url Does Wikipedia s contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Dashboard responseCode 3 200 