hmtqnkxejaegbqxmbcigbirsrifabaciealcneik length 6 349604 page 10033 This is the talk page for discussing improvements to the Prime Minister of Spain article. This is not a forum for general discussion of the article's subject. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit; get help. Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Article policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Find sources: Google (books · news · scholar · free images · WP refs) · FENS · JSTOR · NYT · TWL A news item involving Prime Minister of Spain was featured on Wikipedia's Main Page in the In the news section on 1 June 2018. Wikipedia Spain C‑class High‑importance Spain portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Spain, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Spain on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.SpainWikipedia:WikiProject SpainTemplate:WikiProject SpainSpain articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. High This article has been rated as High-importance on the project's importance scale. Politics C‑class Mid‑importance Politics portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Politics, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of politics on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.PoliticsWikipedia:WikiProject PoliticsTemplate:WikiProject Politicspolitics articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale. Daily pageviews of this article A graph should have been displayed here but graphs are temporarily disabled. Until they are enabled again, visit the interactive graph at pageviews.wmcloud.org The position is NOT Prime Minister[edit] In Spain, there never has been a position called 'Prime Minister'. Since the first elected governments, the leading position has been a president, During the Cortes of Cadiz, there were a President ( José María Gutiérrez de Terán ) And under the first democratic monarchy, there were presidents Canovas del Castillo and Práxedes Mateo Sagasta. I need to know... who has decided that Spain's governor is called 'Prime Minister', while it's clearly called 'President'? — Preceding unsigned comment added by 85.136.7.161 (talk) 08:05, 29 June 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Thanks for your comment. As you can see in the article, it is widely explained that the official title in Spain is "president of the Government" but, internationally, heads of government who are not heads of state are known as "prime ministers". TheRichic (Messages here) 12:59, 29 June 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Are we having this discussion again? Zape82 (talk) 09:59, 30 June 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Link to the relevant discussions.[1] Regards, Thinker78 (talk) 02:02, 12 August 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Position of columns[edit] The name of the PM should be at the far left instead of the monarch, since we want to read about the main subject first. --Jiang 02:50, 15 Mar 2004 (UTC) What do you mean? The PM names are at the left for me, just next to the related pictures, while the monarch is at the far right. I tried to check whether this is a "unicode bi-di" issue, but clicking "switch page direction" in firefox did nothing. Habbit (talk) 19:37, 11 May 2008 (UTC)Reply[reply] President of Spain?[edit] Is there no pisition of a president of Spain? RickK | Talk 05:45, 15 Mar 2004 (UTC) No. Spain is not a republic. --Wik 05:46, Mar 15, 2004 (UTC) Per CIA Factbook, the Head of Government is called President of the Government (Spanish: Presidente del Gobierno), so yes, there is such a thing as President of Spain. --Cantus 05:54, 15 Mar 2004 (UTC) Can you grasp the difference between "President of the Government" and "President of Spain"? --Wik 05:56, Mar 15, 2004 (UTC) The point being, it is still called a President. --Cantus Wik is right that it is never "President of Spain". As far as I know there is no country that has both a "president" and a reigning monarch. Precisely because of this "presidente" is commonly used as shorthand for "presidente del gobierno", but he's no more the president of Spain than the president of the United States Senate is president of the United States. -- Jmabel 06:06, 15 Mar 2004 (UTC) OK, then ;) --Cantus 06:13, 15 Mar 2004 (UTC) Stop this idiocy please. "Governors"??? --Wik 23:56, Mar 15, 2004 (UTC) Given that both the Chief of State and Head of Government are listed, it is appropriate to call it List of governors of Spain. The page Prime Minister of Spain should not be a list, only a definition of what the Prime Minister of Spain is. --Cantus 00:01, 16 Mar 2004 (UTC) Neither the king nor the prime minister is a "governor". A governor rules a subnational entity or a colony. And the list is mainly about the prime ministers, the kings have a separate article. --Wik 00:06, Mar 16, 2004 (UTC) The Presidents of Spain ruled the First and Second Spanish Republics. --Error 02:58, 17 Mar 2004 (UTC) Spain has a prime minister, in Spanish Presidente del Gobierno literally "Chairman of the Government". Spain does not have a president (a republican Head of State, which would be Presidente del Estado Español) but rather a King. — Chameleon 17:35, 19 May 2005 (UTC)Reply[reply] I'm Spanish, and i have to say that the definition of the word "President" depends from the Nation. So, the "President of Spain" has a diferent meaning than the "President of the USA". There isn't a general definition for "President". "Prime Minister of Spain" is an incorrect definition, it`s like if i called Tony Blair as "President of UK", or George Bush as "Prime Minister of the USA". This is not a correct definition. The only correct definition is "President of Spain". Not at all. I'm Spanish too (hell, I could even post my DNI here to prove it), and the office is not named "Presidente de España", but "Presidente del Gobierno" (de España/la Nación/whatever). The literally translated title would be "President of the Government of Spain", as it has been argued here, but that very position (the chairman of a government council) has an English name by itself: Prime Minister. You argue that we call Gordon Brown (breaking news: Tony Blair resigned. Long ago) "Primer Ministro del RU" instead of "Presidente del Gobierno de RU". Well, that's true. So? There doesn't need to be reciprocity, so that's just non sequitur. The issue with a direct translation of the Spanish title is that in English "President" usually carries meanings beyond that of "head of executive", like "Head of State", and is usually associated with republican regimes. Both conditions are met with your Bush argument. However, you could say, that's the Spanish title! I'm fine with that, and "President of the Government of Spain" would also be a good title for this article, but "President of Spain" is definitely not. Neither in Spanish nor in English.Habbit (talk) 21:06, 21 March 2008 (UTC)Reply[reply] Ok... It's the same thing i want to say (better explained too (thanks, i forgot Gordon Brown XD)). The point that I wanted to emphasize was this: France and USA, both are Republics, but their Presidents have different political competitions, because the french President is the "Chief of State", and France also has a Prime Minister (Head of Government), but de President of the USA is "Chief of State", and "Head of Government" too. So, these two types of presidents are really different, although they are both called with the same name: "president". All the countries have different cultures, and differents names for "similar" things, all of us must respect this. I'm spanish (another one) and I think the correct form of express the concept of "Presidente del Gobierno" is "President of Government" because, while Spain is not a republic, the difference between the spanish system and the english system is the Status Quo of the members of the government. British PM is a "first among equals" and Spanish President is the Head of the government (well, it colud be another form of express this), being the other members subordinates to him. sorry, my english isn't well. —Preceding unsigned comment added by Trancas3.0 (talk • contribs) 18:33, 11 May 2008 (UTC)Reply[reply] I think there are several different issues here. One is what the post is normally called in English and in my experience the term "Prime Minister" is always used by the British media (and not just for Spain but also Italy, Poland and indeed nearly every other country's head of government post bar Ireland, Germany, Austria and those countries where it's a combined state and government headship) and indeed by British ministers. I can't comment on other countries but I'd expect that if the governments of the countries had an issue with it they might discretely have a word, at least for when having joint press conferences and statements. As others have said, translation is not a one to one process. Whilst "President" traditionally meant just the "presiding officer" of a body and still survives in a few titles (e.g. Lord President of the [Privy] Council) in practice the term in English has come to mean the head of an organisation and in political terms it's used to mean the head of state. When Michael Heseltine opted to revive the title President of the Board of Trade there was much comment on what this said about his ambition and ego, something that wouldn't happen in a language where "President" still has a broader meaning. I take your point about the UK Prime Minister traditionally being "first amongst equals" (although the phrase was originally an insult meaning "king's pet") but in de facto practice the UK Prime Minister is head of the government and the ministers-are-all-equals concep contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:Prime_Minister_of_Spain responseCode 3 200 