hqhgrmfgococxaqezmzmockaaccqkgkeqafayini length 6 280451 page 10008 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Did you know... 31 December 2021 00:00, 31 December 2021 (UTC) Dante, Virgil and Cerberus, illustrated by Stradanus ... that Dante used the third circle of hell (illustrated) to discuss contemporary Florentine politics rather than the sin of gluttony? ... that Re'quan Boyette was named to the American Football Coaches Association (AFCA) Good Works Team in 2008, making him the second Duke player to receive the honor? ... that a group of self-employed women on the island of Cikobia-i-Ra donate 10 percent of their earnings to combat climate change? ... that George Mackaness showed that by infecting mice with intracellular bacteria, macrophages could be activated to attack other bacteria? ... that the specific and common names of the Argentine seabass refer to different countries? ... that Ingeborg Beugel left Greece following death threats and reported attacks after she questioned the prime minister about pushbacks? ... that Chninkel, a Franco-Belgian comic mixing Tolkien-like fantasy with Biblical themes, has been translated into several languages? ... that trade negotiator Michael Smith's negotiating style was summarized by a sign at his office door that read "This is not Burger King"? 30 December 2021 00:00, 30 December 2021 (UTC) Elisabeth Schmitz ... that Kristallnacht prompted Elisabeth Schmitz (pictured) to leave her teaching job, unwilling to work for "a government that permitted the synagogues to be set afire"? ... that among the traditions of the University of Texas at Arlington are bed racing and oozeball? ... that Brazilian student Bruno Borges disappeared, leaving fourteen handwritten encrypted books and a statue over two metres (6.6 ft) tall in his bedroom? ... that the Austro-Hungarian yacht Dalmat carried Archduke Franz Ferdinand on his journey to Sarajevo in 1914 and returned with his body? ... that in the 1880s Joseph T. Wilson wrote the "most comprehensive study of African American military service" of the era? ... that consuming the vitamin riboflavin in large amounts will cause urine to have a bright yellow color? ... that the leaders of Nazi Germany believed that Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin were puppets of an international Jewish conspiracy? ... that Indonesian politician Iskandar Ramis had to be hospitalized after attempting to make juice? 29 December 2021 00:00, 29 December 2021 (UTC) High heels with dyed-black harp seal fur by Nicole Camphaug ... that a pair of sealskin-covered high heels (example pictured) by Inuk designer Nicole Camphaug are held in the Bata Shoe Museum of Toronto? ... that an incident at Bridle Trails State Park resulted in a horse being euthanized? ... that cricketer Kekhashru Mistry, an all-rounder in the first all-Indian cricket team that toured England in 1911, had to return after three games because he was also the aide-de-camp to the maharaja of Patiala? ... that contestants in the Financial Modeling World Cup solve problems in Microsoft Excel? ... that Nicholas Horsfall published five commentaries on Vergil's Aeneid after being diagnosed with multiple sclerosis? ... that a strike by uranium miners in 1974 in Ontario led to the creation of the Occupational Health and Safety Act? ... that impressionist Paul Boland has imitated over 100 voices during his performances including Frank Sinatra, Elvis Presley, and the Beatles? ... that a ghostly figure can be seen at the legendary home of King Arthur? 28 December 2021 00:00, 28 December 2021 (UTC) William Rounseville Alger ... that William Rounseville Alger's (pictured) 1857 Fourth of July speech was so controversial that the city of Boston refused to print it for seven years? ... that Herrscher des Himmels, erhöre das Lallen, a Bach cantata for the Third Day of Christmas, contains the only aria that he newly composed for the oratorio? ... that the bridge from which James Bond leapt in No Time to Die is actually an aqueduct? ... that despite the support of the British authorities, the multi-racial United Tanganyika Party was unsuccessful, with the African-nationalist TANU winning a majority in the 1958–59 election? ... that Maine state legislator Tracy Quint introduced a bill that would have banned all COVID-19 vaccination mandates in Maine until 2024? ... that in 1874, thousands of Russian students "[went] to the people" to agitate the peasantry towards socialism? ... that a 1939 thesis by Nathaniel Fadipe, The Sociology of the Yoruba, was the first sociological study by a black African? ... that the original author of Half-Life: Full Life Consequences wanted it to be so bad that "it stands the test of time as one of the worst things ever written"? 27 December 2021 00:00, 27 December 2021 (UTC) Canal at Westbury Court Garden ... that the peak period in England for formal closed canals in gardens (example pictured) was from about the 1690s to 1720s? ... that theatre critic Günther Rühle's books cover the history of theatre in Germany, its events and its people, from 1887 to 1966? ... that Hypericum aegypticum exhibits a rare form of heterostyly? ... that the home of civil rights activist Lottie B. Scott is a stop on Norwich's Freedom Trail? ... that the software vulnerability Log4Shell affects hundreds of millions of devices worldwide? ... that despite the governor-general being advised not to employ him, Darmawan Mangunkusumo kept his colonial government job? ... that three unsuccessful attempts were made to destroy the offices of The Union Flag? ... that mountaineer Edmund Hillary asked Canadian doctor Joan Ford to take her "Adidas runners, a stethoscope and an umbrella" and get to the Himalayas? 26 December 2021 00:00, 26 December 2021 (UTC) Adoration of the Kings, detail ... that there is some uncertainty as to which figures in Bramantino's Adoration of the Kings represent the Three Kings? ... that the Christmas Special Honda minibike, which struggled to sell upon release in 1986, is now worth nearly $10,000 as a collector's item? ... that the song "Meri Kuri" by BoA has been dubbed Japan's "All I Want for Christmas Is You"? ... that in 1897, Francis Pharcellus Church wrote "Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus"? ... that "Brich an, du schönes Morgenlicht" (Break, you beautiful morning light) tells the shepherds in Bach's Christmas Oratorio not to be afraid? ... that a Christmas gift on The West Wing's "Bartlet for America", a napkin bearing the episode's slogan, was replicated for Jacky Rosen's U.S. Senate campaign? ... that the creation of the traditional Valtellina Christmas sweet bread bisciola is credited to Napoleon, even though he was never in the region? ... that New Yorkers could at one time rely on thrice-weekly visits from Santa Claus—though not over Christmas? 25 December 2021 00:00, 25 December 2021 (UTC) Bolton Abbey in the Snow by B. W. Evans ... that artist Bernard Walter Evans' Bolton Abbey in the Snow (pictured) was painted outdoors in "something like Arctic conditions"? ... that the 2018 soundtrack album It's Christmas, Eve by LeAnn Rimes originated from a film in which Rimes played the main character? ... that the Florida beach festival Surfing Santas, held regularly on Christmas Eve, was inspired by a Honda commercial? ... that when Josef Rheinberger conducted the first performance of his Mass in A major for three women's voices on Christmas Eve 1881, he added a flute and a string quintet to the organ accompaniment? ... that The Jew's Christmas was the first American film to have a rabbi as one of its characters? ... that besides their usual pop fare, the Glee cast sang hymns in traditional arrangements on Glee: The Music, T contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2021/December responseCode 3 200 