hqqgosostsskbqgozggkbkzevenopsimzkjoigbm length 6 153816 page 10003 Location within the White House campus in Washington, DC Marine One descending to its landing on the South Lawn in July 1987 State Arrival Ceremony for President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines in May 2003 The South Lawn at the White House in Washington, D.C., is directly south of the house and is bordered on the east by East Executive Drive and the Treasury Building, on the west by West Executive Drive and the Old Executive Office Building, and along its curved southern perimeter by South Executive Drive and a large circular public lawn called The Ellipse. Since the address of the White House is 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, and the North Lawn faces Pennsylvania Avenue, the South Lawn is sometimes described as the back lawn of the White House. Description and use[edit] The Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn in April 2017 The South Lawn presents a long north–south vista from the White House. Open to the public until the World War II, it is now a closed part of the White House grounds that provides a setting for official events like the State Arrival Ceremony as well as informal gatherings including the annual White House Egg Rolling Contest and staff barbecues. Marine One, the presidential helicopter, departs from and lands on the South Lawn. History and design[edit] A stereograph showing the earliest fountain on the South Lawn, circa 1868 Sheep graze on the South Lawn during the administration of Woodrow Wilson, circa 1914 When the White House was first occupied in 1800 the site of the South Lawn was an open meadow gradually descending to a large marsh, the Tiber Creek, and Potomac River beyond.[1] Thomas Jefferson completed grading of the South Lawn, building up mounds on either side of a central lawn. Jefferson, working with architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe located a triumphal arch as a main entry point to the grounds, just southeast of the White House.[2] Pierre-Charles L'Enfant's 1793 plan of the city of Washington, indicates a setting of terraced formal gardens descending to Tiber Creek. Later in 1850, landscape designer Andrew Jackson Davis attempted to soften the geometry of the L'Enfant plan, incorporating a semicircular southern boundary and meandering paths.[3] Andrew Jackson Davis's changes included enlarging the South Lawn, creating a large circular lawn he termed the "Parade or President's Park" and bordered by densely planted shrubs and trees.[4] During the administration of Ulysses S. Grant the marsh to the south was drained, and the South Lawn received additional grading and 8 feet (2.4 m) to 10 feet (3.0 m) of fill to make the descent to the Potomac more gradual.[5] During the administrations of Rutherford B. Hayes and the first term Grover Cleveland the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers were engaged to reconfigure the South Lawn, reducing the size of Downing's circular parade, and creating the current boundaries much as they presently are.[6] Theodore Roosevelt, who had engaged the architectural firm of McKim, Mead, and White to reconfigure and rebuild parts of the White House in 1902, was influenced to remove the complex of Victorian era glass houses built up the West Colonnade and the site of the present West Wing. In 1934, President Franklin D. Roosevelt engaged Frederick Law Olmsted Jr. to evaluate the grounds and recommend changes. Olmsted understood the need to offer presidents and their families a modicum of privacy balancing with the requirement for public views of the White House.[5] The Olmsted plan presented the landscape largely as seen today: retaining or planting large specimen trees and shrubs on the perimeter to create boundaries for visual privacy, but punctuated with generous sight lines of the house from north and south.[7] The lawn is planted with a grass variety called tall fescue.[8] Horticulture[edit] Specimen trees[edit] Snow on the Atlas Cedar on the South Lawn in January 2007 Trees on the South Lawn include the earliest remaining trees on the grounds to have been planted by a United States president, President Andrew Jackson's southern magnolias (Magnolia grandiflora) on either side of the South portico, Japanese threadleaf maple (Acer palmatum dissectum), American elm (Ulmus americana), white oak (Quercus alba), white saucer magnolia (Magnolia × soulangeana), Atlas cedar (Cedrus atlantica), sugar maple (Acer saccharum), and northern red oak (Quercus rubra).[9] Seasonal plantings[edit] The South Lawn pool and fountain is planted seasonally with borders of tulips edged by grape hyacinth (Muscari armeniacum) for spring, red geranium (Pelargonium) and Dusty Miller (Senecio cineraria) in summer, and chrysanthemum (Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium) in fall.[10] Amenities[edit] Ceremonial gardens[edit] The two ceremonial gardens of the White House (the Rose Garden and the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden) face the South Lawn. The Rose Garden (sometimes referred to as "The presidents Garden") is located south-west of the main residence along the west colonnade, just outside the Oval Office. The Jacqueline Kennedy Garden is located south-east of the main residence along the east colonnade. The garden was dedicated by Lady Bird Johnson as the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden on April 22, 1965, although it has been called the "First Lady's Garden" by some later administrations. Tennis and basketball court[edit] Main article: White House tennis court President Obama greeting wounded warriors on the court in 2011 A tennis court was first installed during the Theodore Roosevelt administration on the south lawn. Since then, the court has been moved several times, eventually landing in its current position in the south-west area. President Obama had basketball court lines and removable baskets installed so he could play full court basketball. Located just west of the tennis and basketball court is a half-court basketball area that also housed a horseshoe pit. Swimming pool[edit] Main article: White House swimming pool President Ford swimming in the White House swimming pool in July 1975 In 1975, the outdoor swimming pool was installed by President Gerald Ford.[11][12] It is located directly south of the West Wing. A cabana was later added. The original pool at the White House was indoors, located in between the main residence and the West Wing. However, President Richard Nixon turned it into an area for the press, now known as the James S. Brady Press Briefing Room.[13] Putting green[edit] Main article: White House putting green Barack Obama and Joe Biden on the White House Putting Green in April 2009 The putting green was first installed in 1954 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower who was an avid golfer. It was removed by President Nixon[14] and later reinstalled by President George H. W. Bush in 1991.[15] However President Bill Clinton moved it to its current location just south of the Rose Garden, a short walk from the Oval Office.[16] Horseshoe pit[edit] Main article: White House horseshoe pit A horseshoe pit was created on the site of the present putting green by Harry Truman, and later re-established near the swimming pool by George H. W. Bush who was an avid player. Two month long horseshoe tournaments were held bi-annually during Bush's presidency, with teams consisting of maintenance and house staff and family members and administration personnel. Bush would frequently demonstrate his prowess at horseshoes for foreign dignitaries.[17][18] Children's garden[edit] The children's garden is located between the tennis court and basketball court to the south-west area of the property. The garden was a gift to the White House in 1968 from President Johnson and his wife. The garden supplies a secluded location for children to play in private. The garden features a goldfish pond in the sitting area. Footprints and handprints of various President's children and grandchildren are embedded in various stones making up the walkway. Helicopter landing area[edit] Marine One on the South Lawn with the Washington Monument (background) and the Jefferson Memorial (far background) in September 2018 The south lawn provides space for the president's helicopter, Marine One, to land directly on the White House grounds. The helicopter will take off and land in the grassy area directly south of the main residence. For aesthetic reasons, the lawn does not contain a full helipad, but rather three removable aluminum discs which accommodate the helicopter's individual landing gear. 1974 White House helicopter incident[edit] The climax of the 1974 White House helicopter incident occurred on the South Lawn.[19] Running track[edit] President Clinton had a quarter-mile (0.4 km) long jogging track installed during his presidency in 1993. An avid runner, Clinton would regularly want to go on runs, but his doing so greatly disrupted Washington traffic; thus the track was built adjacent to the South Lawn driveway. At a distance, its spongy surface is virtually indistinguishable from the driveway's asphalt. Playground[edit] A playground was installed in 2009 under President Obama for his two children, Sasha and Malia Obama. The playground was located just south of the Oval Office near the Rose Garden, but removed at the end of the Obama administration. Vegetable garden[edit] Main article: White House vegetable garden First Lady Michelle Obama harvests vegetables with Washington, D.C. students in 2011 Michelle Obama installed a vegetable garden during her husband's presidency on the far south area of the property. The vegetables grown are used at the White House for meals as well as donated to area shelters.[20][21] The Obamas also installed a beehive on the south lawn.[22] Belleau Wood tree[edit] President Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron plant the Belleau Wood tree on the South Lawn in commemoration of the Battle of Belleau Wood as First Lady Melania Trump and Brigitte Macron look on in April 2018 During French President Emmanuel Macron's 2018 state visit to the United States, President Donald Trump, First Lady M contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 58 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/South_Lawn_(White_House) responseCode 3 200 