hsaqjqvsjsoqssvaeamircckskeehcuctoqgaiim page 10004 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 31 October 2023 00:00, 31 October 2023 (UTC) Painting used in the box art of John Company ... that the box cover of the board game John Company shows Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, and George, Prince of Wales, gambling at hazard (pictured)? ... that Premana Premadi is the first Indonesian female astronomer to have an asteroid named in her honor? ... that the album No Highs is a response to the "corporate" ambient music of streaming services? ... that telephone operator Myriel Davies began her long career as a peace activist during the Suez Crisis? ... that New Zealand's Native Island hosted a colony of Samoyeds and huskies used in both the Southern Cross and Nimrod expeditions to the South Pole? ... that the suspect in a deadly shooting at the University of North Carolina was a graduate student of the victim? ... that the sound for the film A Rustling of Leaves: Inside the Philippine Revolution was recorded using a Walkman? ... that a man from Milwaukee who goes on walks shirtless is known as the "Milverine"? 30 October 2023 00:00, 30 October 2023 (UTC) Ion Biberi ... that Romanian author Ion Biberi (pictured) rejected Marxism at the risk of unemployment, consoling himself that "man eats 20 times more than what he needs"? ... that since being founded in December 2021, the German initiative Freiheitsfonds has paid for the release of around 850 people imprisoned for fare evasion? ... that in 2023, NFL player Tristin McCollum's team played against a team featuring his twin brother? ... that the Benin Moat was built by the Edo people over several centuries, starting from around AD 800 and continuing until 1460? ... that Lavinia Valbonesi, the first lady–designate of Ecuador, is a nutritionist who owns a fitness center in Tampa, Florida, and a healthy-dining location in Guayaquil? ... that in Fancies Versus Fads, G. K. Chesterton "knocks all our preconceived notions in the scrap heap, and then tells us that there is no scrap heap"? ... that Tommy Villiers, the guitarist for "Feel It", has been a member of five different bands? ... that U.S. Marines eat crayons? 29 October 2023 00:00, 29 October 2023 (UTC) Big Lemon & Paeroa bottle ... that New Zealand's Big Lemon & Paeroa bottle (pictured) was originally a replica space rocket? ... that the Jewish-German Georg Karo was accused of being a Nazi spy after fleeing Nazi persecution? ... that Gracie Graves and the Kids from Room 402 was criticized for conveying "a sort of smug superiority of adults"? ... that Isabelle Cals, who turned to singing after a degree in Chinese, appeared as Wagner's Kundry in a production of Parsifal at the Stadttheater Minden? ... that the Counter-Strike map "Inferno" encourages the player to massacre chickens? ... that the Red Hill Band was commended by the United States Senate in 1965 for its "excellence and its state and community contributions"? ... that AreYouKiddingTV once gave out $5,000 to a student at East Carolina University who was the first to retrieve a clear key from a pool on campus? ... that the founder of Annales des Maladies de la Peau et de la Syphilis claimed to have inoculated himself with syphilis? 28 October 2023 00:00, 28 October 2023 (UTC) Altay railway station ... that until the opening of Altay railway station (pictured) in June 2017, no railway services were provided to Altay City, a tourist attraction with rich mineral resources? ... that Robert Ford Jr. wrote the first article about hip-hop in a major publication? ... that Adele's song "My Little Love" features voice notes of her nine-year-old son? ... that Dennis Law broke an "unwritten commandment" while returning a punt, causing him to get tackled in the end zone? ... that during a call that led to the creation of the Congressional Workers Union, one of the participants attended from a bathroom stall? ... that in the 1950s, 70 percent of senior officers in the People's Liberation Army came from the Eyuwan Soviet area? ... that according to legend, the Sacambaya River houses treasure hidden in a cavern by Jesuits? ... that a statue of Ernest Rutherford was snapped off by a thief and later found in an attic? 27 October 2023 00:00, 27 October 2023 (UTC) John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce ... that John Lennon liked to tell how an older woman lost her temper when she saw his psychedelic Rolls-Royce (pictured)? ... that Bill Dunn, an Indigenous Australian pastoralist approaching retirement, sold his station at half-price to the Jigalong community despite receiving full-price offers from non-Indigenous people? ... that before the House of Commons of Canada considers a taxation or spending bill, a royal recommendation has to be given by the governor general? ... that ancient permafrost can preserve viable microorganisms, some of which contain antibiotic-resistance genes that may be transferred to modern bacteria? ... that during the "coffin brig" HMS Rinaldo's first three years of service, she captured five ships and sank another? ... that according to Christian tradition, the cloth used to shroud the body of Christ was made of sindon? ... that NPR favorably compared a story in Jonathan Escoffery's debut book If I Survive You to Moby-Dick? ... that Ellie Dixon's "Big Lizard Energy" imagines herself as a 320-foot (98 m) dinosaur? 26 October 2023 00:00, 26 October 2023 (UTC) The vehicles used on the Lingang DRT ... that according to one traveller, the rapid transit system Lingang DRT (pictured) took an hour to travel what a car could do in 20 minutes and a bus in 40? ... that Shukriyya Akhundzada learned of her husband's death 15 years after it occurred? ... that New Zealand's election mascot Orange Guy has a pet dog named Pup? ... that the early drafts of Appalachian Spring contained a Native American girl to act as an invisible theatrical device, but it was cut in the final production? ... that Steem peanut butter contained as much caffeine per serving as two cups of coffee? ... that in a copyright infringement case over a coffee-table history of the Grateful Dead, the Second Circuit held that a reuser can still claim fair use despite negotiating with the rights holder? ... that an Alabama radio station was described by its program director as a "no-format mess"? ... that officials said this year's Louisiana wildfire season includes the largest wildfire in the state's history? 25 October 2023 00:00, 25 October 2023 (UTC) Mary Jo Shelly ... that Mary Jo Shelly (pictured) used her background in modern dance and physical education to train women in the military during two wars? ... that Gavriil Popov's Fourth Symphony was not publicly performed until 2023, 74 years after it was composed? ... that German forester Carl A. Schenck founded the first forestry school in North America at George W. Vanderbilt's Biltmore Estate? ... that Russell Shorto's mobster grandfather was described as the "holy trinity of a reprobate—a drunk, a philanderer, and a cheat" in a review of the 2021 family memoir Smalltime? ... that in one of NFL player Earl Witte's only games, he hit a player so hard that the player "stopped, curled up and dropped to the ground as if he had hit a stone wall"? ... that the Cure's Shows of a Lost World has grossed $37.5 million and become their highest-grossing tour to date, despite the band's refusal to use Ticketmaster's dynamic pricing? ... that Ganjar Pranowo's 2024 presidential campaign is headquartered in the same bui contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 73 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2023/October responseCode 3 200 