hsuqwisqfqjikezeoehqfgugpkzcnemaqcbcrmso length 6 209201 page 10042 Flat-bottomed watercraft for transport of bulk goods For other uses, see Barge (disambiguation). Barges towed by a tugboat on the River Thames in London, England, UK A British Airways Concorde being towed in New York City, USA. It is on a deck barge[1]. Barge often refers to a flat-bottomed inland waterway vessel which does not have its own means of mechanical propulsion.[2] The first modern barges were pulled by tugs, but on inland waterways, most are pushed by pusher boats, or other vessels.[citation needed] The term barge has a rich history, and therefore there are many other types of barges. History of the barge[edit] Etymology[edit] "Barge" is attested from 1300, from Old French barge, from Vulgar Latin barga. The word originally could refer to any small boat; the modern meaning arose around 1480. Bark "small ship" is attested from 1420, from Old French barque, from Vulgar Latin barca (400 AD). The more precise meaning of Barque as "three-masted sailing vessel" arose in the 17th century, and often takes the French spelling for disambiguation. Both are probably derived from the Latin barica, from Greek baris "Egyptian boat", from Coptic bari "small boat", hieroglyphic Egyptian and similar ba-y-r for "basket-shaped boat".[3] By extension, the term "embark" literally means to board the kind of boat called a "barque". The British river barge[edit] River barge below Barton Aqueduct c. 1793 A Dutch barge in Namur In Great Britain a merchant barge was originally a flat bottomed merchant vessel for use on navigable rivers.[4] Most of these barges had sails. For traffic on the River Severn the barge was described as: The lesser sort are called barges and frigates, being from forty to sixty feet in length, having a single mast and square sail, and carrying from twenty to forty tons burthen. The larger vessels were called trows.[5] On the River Irwell there was reference to barges passing below Barton Aqueduct with their mast and sails standing.[6] Barges on the Thames were called west country barges.[4] British canals: narrowboats and widebeams[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2023) (template removal help) During the Industrial Revolution, a substantial network of narrow canals was developed in Great Britain from 1750 onward. These new British canals had locks of only 7 feet (2.1 m) wide. This led to the development of the narrowboats, which had a beam of no more than 6 feet 10 inches (2.08 m). It was soon realized that the narrow locks were too limiting. Later locks were therefore doubled in width to 14 feet (4.3 m). This led to the development of the widebeam. The narrowboats were initially also known as barges, but only a very few had sails, unlike earlier vessels. From the start, most of the new canals were constructed with an adjacent towpath along which draft horses walked, towing the barges. These types of canal craft are so specific that on the British canal system the term 'barge' was not used to describe narrowboats and widebeams. Narrowboats and widebeams are still used on canals, now engine-powered. The Thames barge and Dutch barge[edit] On the British canal system, the Thames sailing barge, and Dutch barge and unspecified other styles of barge, are still known as barges.[7] The term Dutch barge is nowadays often used to refer to an accommodation ship, but originally refers to the slightly larger Dutch version of the Thames sailing barge. Crew and pole[edit] The people who moved barges were known as lightermen. Poles are used on barges to fend off other nearby vessels or a wharf. These are often called 'pike poles'. The long pole used to maneuver or propel a barge has given rise to the saying "I wouldn't touch that [subject/thing] with a barge pole."[8] The 19th century British barge[edit] Dumb barge on the Thames In the United Kingdom the word barge had many meanings by the 1890s, and these varied locally. On the Mersey a barge was called a 'Flat', on the Thames a Lighter or barge, and on the Humber a 'Keel'.[9] A Lighter had neither mast nor rigging.[10] A keel did have a single mast with sails.[9] Barge and lighter were used indiscriminately. A local distinction was that any flat that was not propelled by steam was a barge, although it might be a sailing flat.[9] The term Dumb barge was probably taken into use to end the confusion. The term Dumb barge surfaced in the early nineteenth century. It first denoted the use of a barge as a mooring platform in a fixed place. As it went up and down with the tides, it made a very convenient mooring place for steam vessels.[11] Within a few decades, the term dumb barge evolved, and came to mean: 'a vessel propelled by oars only'.[12] By the 1890s Dumb barge was still used only on the Thames.[13] By 1880 barges on British rivers and canals were often towed by steam tugboats.[14] On the Thames, many dumb barges still relied on their poles, oars and the tide. Others dumb barges made use of about 50 tugboats to tow them to their destinations. While many coal barges were towed, many dumb barges that handled single parcels were not.[15] The 19th century American barge[edit] In the United States a barge was not a sailing vessel by the end of the 19th century. Indeed, barges were often created by cutting down (razeeing) sailing vessels.[16] In New York this was an accepted meaning of the term barge. The somewhat smaller scow was built as such, but the scow also had its sailing counterpart the sailing scow. The modern barge[edit] The iron barge[edit] The innovation that led to the modern barge was the use of iron barges towed by a steam tugboat. These were first used to transport grain and other bulk products. From about 1840 to 1870 the towed iron barge was quickly introduced on the Rhine, Danube, Don, Dniester, and rivers in Egypt, India and Australia. Many of these barges were built in Great Britain.[17] Nowadays 'barge' generally refers to a dumb barge.[18] In Europe, a Dumb barge is: An inland waterway transport freight vessel designed to be towed which does not have its own means of mechanical propulsion.[2] In America, a barge is generally pushed. Modern use[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2023) (template removal help) Towboat pushing a barge on the Chicago River 3x3 nine unit barge going through La Crosse, Wisconsin Multiple barges pushed around a tight bend on the Cumberland River Towboat Herbert P. Brake of New York pushes a new barge east on the Erie Canal in Fairport, New York, United States Barges are used today for transporting low-value bulk items, as the cost of hauling goods that way is very low. Barges are also used for very heavy or bulky items; a typical American barge measures 195 by 35 feet (59.4 m × 10.7 m), and can carry up to about 1,500 short tons (1,400 t) of cargo. The most common European barges measure 251 by 37 feet (76.5 m × 11.4 m) and can carry up to about 2,450 tonnes (2,700 short tons). As an example, on June 26, 2006, in the US a 565-short-ton (513 t) catalytic cracking unit reactor was shipped by barge from the Tulsa Port of Catoosa in Oklahoma to a refinery in Pascagoula, Mississippi. Extremely large objects are normally shipped in sections and assembled after delivery, but shipping an assembled unit reduces costs and avoids reliance on construction labor at the delivery site, which in the case of the reactor was still recovering from Hurricane Katrina. Of the reactor's 700-mile (1,100 km) journey, only about 40 miles (64 km) were traveled overland, from the final port to the refinery. Self-propelled barges may be used for traveling downstream or upstream in placid waters; they are operated as an unpowered barge, with the assistance of a tugboat, when traveling upstream in faster waters. Canal barges are usually made for the particular canal in which they will operate. Unpowered vessels—barges—may be used for other purposes, such as large accommodation vessels, towed to where they are needed and stationed there as long as necessary. An example is the Bibby Stockholm.[19] Types[edit] Admiral's barge Articulated tug and barge – Boat that maneuvers other vessels by pushing or towing themPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Barracks barge – Watercraft serving as floating personnel accommodationPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets ("accommodation barge") Bin barge Canal motorship – The last self-propelled regularly scheduled commercial ship on the Erie canal.Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Car float – Unpowered barge with railroad tracks mounted on its deck Ferrocement or "Concrete" Barge Crane barge – Ship with a crane specialized for lifting heavy loadsPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Dredges – Excavation of sediment, usually under waterPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Deck barge Dutch barge – Flat-bottomed shoal-draught sailing barge Dry bulk cargo barge – Vessel designed to carry freight in bulk format Gundalow – Type of New England sailing barge Hopper barge – non-mechanical ship or vessel that cannot move around by itselfPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Hotel barge Horse-drawn boat – Canal boat pulled by a horse on a towpath Jackup barge – Type of mobile platformPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Landing craft – Seagoing watercraft Lighter – Type of flat-bottomed barge Liquid cargo barge – barge that transports petrochemicalsPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Log barge Notch barge Narrowboat – Type of British canal boat Norfolk wherry – type of boat on The Broads in Norfolk, EnglandPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Rocket landing barge – Floating landing platform  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 39 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Barge responseCode 3 200 