hsyavswqkkeiggomugsoeqakmkjqhstmqihsacmm length 6 392403 page 10009 Market value of goods and services produced within a country "GDP" redirects here. For other uses, see GDP (disambiguation). A 2014 World Bank map of world economies by the size of GDP (nominal) in U.S. Dollars[1] Part of a series on Economics History Outline Index Branches and classifications Applied Econometrics Heterodox International Micro / Macro Mainstream Mathematical Methodology Political Theory JEL classification codes Concepts, theory and techniques Economic systems Economic growth Market National accounting Experimental economics Computational economics Game theory Operations research Middle income trap Industrial complex By application Agricultural Behavioral Business Cultural Demographic Development Digitization Ecological Education Engineering Environmental Evolutionary Expeditionary Feminist Financial Geographical Happiness Health Historical Humanistic Industrial organization Information Institutional Knowledge Labour Law Managerial Monetary Natural resource Organizational Participation Personnel Planning Policy Public Public choice / Social choice theory Regional Rural Service Socio Sociological Solidarity Statistics Urban Welfare Notable economists Quesnay Smith Malthus Say Ricardo von Thünen List Bastiat Cournot Mill Gossen Marx Walras Jevons George Menger Marshall Edgeworth Clark Pareto von Böhm-Bawerk von Wieser Veblen Fisher Pigou Heckscher von Mises Schumpeter Keynes Knight Polanyi Frisch Sraffa Myrdal Hayek Kalecki Röpke Kuznets Robinson von Neumann Hicks Lange Leontief Galbraith Koopmans Schumacher Friedman Samuelson Simon Buchanan Arrow Baumol Solow Rothbard Greenspan Sowell Becker Ostrom Sen Lucas Stiglitz Thaler Hoppe Krugman Piketty more Lists Glossary Economists Publications (journals) Schools Business and Economics portal Money portal v t e Gross domestic product (GDP) is a monetary measure of the market value[2] of all the final goods and services produced in a specific time period by a country[3] or countries.[4][5][6] GDP is most often used by the government of a single country to measure its economic health.[3] Due to its complex and subjective nature, this measure is often revised before being considered a reliable indicator.[7] GDP definitions are maintained by several national and international economic organizations. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) defines GDP as "an aggregate measure of production equal to the sum of the gross values added of all resident and institutional units engaged in production and services (plus any taxes, and minus any subsidies, on products not included in the value of their outputs)".[8] An IMF publication states that, "GDP measures the monetary value of final goods and services—that are bought by the final user—produced in a country in a given period (say a quarter or a year)."[9] GDP (nominal) per capita does not, however, reflect differences in the cost of living and the inflation rates of the countries; therefore, using a basis of GDP per capita at purchasing power parity (PPP) may be more useful when comparing living standards between nations, while nominal GDP is more useful comparing national economies on the international market.[10] Total GDP can also be broken down into the contribution of each industry or sector of the economy.[11] The ratio of GDP to the total population of the region is the per capita GDP (also called the Mean Standard of Living). GDP is often used as a metric for international comparisons as well as a broad measure of economic progress. It is often considered to be the world's most powerful statistical indicator of national development and progress. However, critics of the growth imperative often argue that GDP measures were never intended to measure progress, and leave out key other externalities, such as resource extraction, environmental impact and unpaid domestic work.[12] Critics frequently propose alternative economic models such as doughnut economics which use other measures of success or alternative indicators such as the OECD's Better Life Index as better approaches to measuring the effect of the economy on human development and well being. For example, the GDP of Germany in 2022 was 3.9 trillion euros, which included 390 billion euros of taxes like the value-added tax.[13][14] History[edit] U.S. YoY Quarterly gross domestic product growth rate William Petty came up with a basic concept of GDP to attack landlords against unfair taxation during warfare between the Dutch and the English between 1654 and 1676.[clarification needed][15] Charles Davenant developed the method further in 1695.[16] The modern concept of GDP was first developed by Simon Kuznets for a 1934 U.S. Congress report, where he warned against its use as a measure of welfare (see below under limitations and criticisms).[17] After the Bretton Woods conference in 1944, GDP became the main tool for measuring a country's economy.[18] At that time gross national product (GNP) was the preferred estimate, which differed from GDP in that it measured production by a country's citizens at home and abroad rather than its 'resident institutional units' (see OECD definition above). The switch from GNP to GDP in the United States occurred in 1991. The role that measurements of GDP played in World War II was crucial to the subsequent political acceptance of GDP values as indicators of national development and progress.[19] A crucial role was played here by the U.S. Department of Commerce under Milton Gilbert where ideas from Kuznets were embedded into institutions. The history of the concept of GDP should be distinguished from the history of changes in many ways of estimating it. The value added by firms is relatively easy to calculate from their accounts, but the value added by the public sector, by financial industries, and by intangible asset creation is more complex. These activities are increasingly important in developed economies, and the international conventions governing their estimation and their inclusion or exclusion in GDP regularly change in an attempt to keep up with industrial advances. In the words of one academic economist, "The actual number for GDP is, therefore, the product of a vast patchwork of statistics and a complicated set of processes carried out on the raw data to fit them to the conceptual framework."[20] China officially adopted GDP in 1993 as its indicator of economic performance. Previously, China had relied on a Marxist-inspired national accounting system.[21] Determining gross domestic product (GDP)[edit] An infographic explaining how GDP is calculated in the UK GDP can be determined in three ways, all of which should, theoretically, give the same result. They are the production (or output or value added) approach, the income approach, and the speculated expenditure approach. It is representative of the total output and income within an economy. The most direct of the three is the production approach, which sums up the outputs of every class of enterprise to arrive at the total. The expenditure approach works on the principle that all of the products must be bought by somebody, therefore the value of the total product must be equal to people's total expenditures in buying things. The income approach works on the principle that the incomes of the productive factors ("producers", colloquially) must be equal to the value of their product, and determines GDP by finding the sum of all producers' incomes.[22] Production approach[edit] Also known as the Value Added Approach, it calculates how much value is contributed at each stage of production. This approach mirrors the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) definition given above. Estimate the gross value of domestic output out of the many various economic activities; Determine the intermediate consumption, i.e., the cost of material, supplies and services used to produce final goods or services. Deduct intermediate consumption from gross value to obtain the gross value added. Gross value added = gross value of output – value of intermediate consumption. Value of output = value of the total sales of goods and services plus the value of changes in the inventory. The sum of the gross value added in the various economic activities is known as "GDP at factor cost". GDP at factor cost plus indirect taxes fewer subsidies on products = "GDP at producer price". For measuring the output of domestic product, economic activities (i.e. industries) are classified into various sectors. After classifying economic activities, the output of each sector is calculated by any of the following two methods: By multiplying the output of each sector by their respective market price and adding them together By collecting data on gross sales and inventories from the records of companies and adding them together The value of output of all sectors is then added to get the gross value of output at factor cost. Subtracting each sector's intermediate consumption from gross output value gives the GVA (=GDP) at factor cost. Adding indirect tax minus subsidies to GVA (GDP) at factor cost gives the "GVA (GDP) at producer prices". Income approach[edit] The second way of estimating GDP is to use "the sum of primary incomes distributed by resident producer units".[8] If GDP is calculated this way it is sometimes called gross domestic income (GDI), or GDP (I). GDI should provide the same amount as the expenditure method described later. By definition, GDI is equal to GDP. In practice, however, measurement errors will make the two figures slightly off when reported by national statistical agencies. This method measures GDP by adding incomes that firms pay households for factors of production they hire - wages for labour, interest for capital, rent for land and profits for entrepreneurship. The US "National Income and Product Accounts" divide incomes into five categories: Wages, salaries, and supplementary labor income Corporate profits Interest and miscella contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Gross_domestic_product responseCode 3 200 