ianqzkpeqeridetqmkrmdqbqmcrarojkqmrixika length 6 237946 page 10002 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 31 October 2020 12:00, 31 October 2020 (UTC) Postage stamp commemorating the 1965 Indian Everest Expedition ... that the twenty members of the successful 1965 Indian Everest expedition (stamp pictured) are to date the only team recipients of the Arjuna Award? ... that Ivy Hooks was one of only two women assigned to the original design team for the Space Shuttle orbiter? ... that Bruder Martin is an oratorio of seven scenes from the life of Martin Luther, written for the 500th anniversary of the Reformation by a Protestant librettist and a Catholic composer? ... that the New York City gay bar Metropolitan is situated at a site formerly occupied by a colonial-era cemetery? ... that Taneko Suzuki, an expert in protein chemistry, led the development of a fish-based product that had the texture of hamburger and could be seasoned to taste like beef? ... that the song "Cups (When I'm Gone)" features Anna Kendrick playing percussion with a cup, a skill she learned by watching viral videos? ... that when pediatric neurologist David Gardner-Medwin retired, it took four doctors to replace him? ... that actress Jamie Lee Curtis insured her legs for $1 million after signing an endorsement with L'eggs pantyhose? 00:00, 31 October 2020 (UTC) Nelson Rockefeller ... that on the 1965 comedy album "Welcome to the LBJ Ranch!", Nelson Rockefeller (pictured) is heard saying that he gave his wife the states of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut as an anniversary gift? ... that the Fauré Quartet, a piano quartet founded in 1995, participated in the world premiere and recording of Sven Helbig's twelve Pocket Symphonies? ... that the English classicist Denys Page was both master of Jesus College, Cambridge, and president of the university's cricket club? ... that the Cleveland School fire, the deadliest in South Carolina history, took place on the day the school was to close for good? ... that Joseph Clark gave some of his paintings titles in the Dorset dialect, in which his schoolmaster William Barnes wrote poetry? ... that banana cream pie was ranked the favorite pie of the United States Armed Forces in the 1950s? ... that Terpios hoshinota, a sponge that overgrows and kills corals, has spread extensively since being detected in Guam in 1973? ... that American doctor Guy Gibson Campbell served as personal physician to Ethiopian emperor Haile Selassie? 30 October 2020 12:00, 30 October 2020 (UTC) T-bone steak ... that it was illegal to sell a T-bone steak (example pictured) in Great Britain between 1997 and 1999? ... that Batman and the Joker parade down the street daily at Warner Bros. Movie World? ... that Rear Admiral Timothy S. Matthews received an award from the Association of Old Crows? ... that a conservation professor who appeared in Extinction: The Facts described it as "surprisingly radical" for a David Attenborough documentary? ... that Pope Francis's encyclical Fratelli tutti is the first to be signed outside Rome? ... that American composer Norma Wendelburg studied at the Mozarteum in Salzburg and the Vienna Academy of Music on two Fulbright scholarships? ... that 47 people, including bystanders and an amateur reporter, were arrested in Warsaw at a protest against the detention of LGBT activist Margot in August 2020? ... that a monumental plaque to Italian physician Giovanni Bianchi states: Nascitur infelix, vixit infelicior, obiit infelicissime (He was born unhappy, he lived more unhappy, he died maximally unhappy)? 00:00, 30 October 2020 (UTC) Die Schutzbefohlenen, 2015 ... that Katrin Lea Tag, named the 2020 Scenic Designer of the Year, created sets and costumes for Die Schutzbefohlenen (production pictured) at the Burgtheater, and for Barrie Kosky's Salome at Oper Frankfurt? ... that all three engines on Aeroflot Flight 6709 stopped at the same time, resulting in a deadly crash? ... that designs by nail artist Jenny Bui have become part of Cardi B's signature look? ... that the results of the 1870 Londonderry City by-election were cited as evidence of co-operation between Episcopalian and Presbyterian voters in Ulster? ... that the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine can legally detain a person entering the U.S. who may have one of nine quarantinable contagious diseases? ... that the concept of the multimedia franchise BanG Dream! involves bands composed of voice actresses who can play their own instruments? ... that Louis-Thomas Chabert de Joncaire convinced several Iroquois tribes to ally with the French against the English in 1711 through song? ... that Ernest Hemingway watched the television adaptation of For Whom the Bell Tolls from a flea-bitten motel as the screenwriter held the "rabbit ears" for him? 29 October 2020 00:00, 29 October 2020 (UTC) City of Ragusa ... that the 20-foot (6 m) 19th-century yawl City of Ragusa (pictured) crossed the Atlantic twice, and President Grant came to see her? ... that Anthony J. Costello and associates proposed in 2005 that the nerves within the "veil of Aphrodite" mainly supplied the prostate rather than the corpora cavernosa? ... that following the Treaty of Ripon, signed on this day in 1640, a Scottish army had their expenses paid by England, while occupying northern England? ... that the queen and others apparently used to watch Malla kings taking baths in the Tusha Hiti? ... that horn player Helen Kotas Hirsch began performing with the Woman's Symphony Orchestra of Chicago at the age of 14? ... that Ganni was founded in 2000 as a cashmere brand, but resurfaced and gained popularity as a contemporary designer label almost 20 years later? ... that U.S. district judge Loretta Preska has presided over criminal cases against a basketball coach, a computer hacker, a Somali pirate, and a Rikers Island guard? ... that Airborne Cigar confused German night fighters by broadcasting sound over the voices of their ground controllers? 28 October 2020 00:00, 28 October 2020 (UTC) Castillo de Santa Catalina ... that the Castillo de Santa Catalina (pictured) in Santa Cruz de La Palma is the only preserved Habsburg-period castle in the Canary Islands? ... that Saint Augustine believed that lying is un-Christian even when done to save a life? ... that the Sahrawi refugee poet Al Khadra has written poems intended to inspire military revolution, including criticism of the Moroccan Western Sahara Wall? ... that the Tahtakale Hamam, one of the oldest public bathhouses in Istanbul, now serves as a shopping center? ... that J. B. Clark, together with Aubrey Beardsley and William Strang, illustrated an edition of Lucian's True History? ... that King of Beasts, a documentary about lion trophy hunting, was filmed during the same month as the killing of Cecil the lion? ... that Gabriel Scally of the Independent SAGE committee has described the British government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic as "too little, too late, too flawed"? ... that nervous drivers can purchase a shuttle ride to get across the Chesapeake Bay Bridge? 27 October 2020 00:00, 27 October 2020 (UTC) Coney Island shore ... that New York City's Coney Island (pictured) has not been an island since the 1930s? ... that when the army of Spendius was surrounded, his men ate their horses, their prisoners, and then their slaves before forcing him to negotiate? ... that the children's picture book Julián Is a Mermaid was initially going to be about drag balls, until the author learned about the meaning of mermaids to transgender people? ... that the hymn "Singt dem Herrn ein neues Lied" (Sing to the Lord a new song) was written in both French and  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 73 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2020/October responseCode 3 200 