icoaaixqbcdarsigjodicskoriialqzafinseqdo length 5 73687 page 2564 Index of articles associated with the same name This article includes a list of related items that share the same name (or similar names). If an internal link incorrectly led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article. Medical condition Ductal carcinoma Micrograph of breast tissue with ductal carcinoma. H&E stain. Ductal carcinoma is a type of tumor that primarily presents in the ducts of a gland.[1] Types include: Mammary Ductal carcinoma in situ Invasive ductal carcinoma Pancreatic ductal carcinoma References[edit] ^ "NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms". National Cancer Institute. 2 February 2011. Retrieved 21 November 2019. External links[edit] Classification D MeSH: D044584 Media related to Ductal carcinomas at Wikimedia Commons v t e Glandular and epithelial cancer Epithelium Papilloma/carcinoma Small-cell carcinoma Combined small-cell lung carcinoma Verrucous carcinoma Squamous-cell carcinoma Basal-cell carcinoma Transitional cell carcinoma Inverted papilloma Complex epithelial Warthin's tumor Thymoma Bartholin gland carcinoma Glands Adenomas/ adenocarcinomas Gastrointestinal tract: Linitis plastica Familial adenomatous polyposis pancreas Insulinoma Glucagonoma Gastrinoma VIPoma Somatostatinoma Cholangiocarcinoma Klatskin tumor Hepatocellular adenoma/Hepatocellular carcinoma Urogenital Renal cell carcinoma Endometrioid tumor Renal oncocytoma Endocrine Prolactinoma Multiple endocrine neoplasia Adrenocortical adenoma/Adrenocortical carcinoma Hürthle cell Other/multiple Neuroendocrine tumor Carcinoid Adenoid cystic carcinoma Oncocytoma Clear-cell adenocarcinoma Apudoma Cylindroma Papillary hidradenoma Adnexal and skin appendage sweat gland Hidrocystoma Syringoma Syringocystadenoma papilliferum Cystic, mucinous, and serous Cystic general Cystadenoma/Cystadenocarcinoma Mucinous Signet ring cell carcinoma Krukenberg tumor Mucinous cystadenoma / Mucinous cystadenocarcinoma Pseudomyxoma peritonei Mucoepidermoid carcinoma Serous Ovarian serous cystadenoma / Pancreatic serous cystadenoma / Serous cystadenocarcinoma / Papillary serous cystadenocarcinoma Ductal, lobular, and medullary Ductal carcinoma Mammary ductal carcinoma Pancreatic ductal carcinoma Comedocarcinoma Paget's disease of the breast / Extramammary Paget's disease Lobular carcinoma Lobular carcinoma in situ Invasive lobular carcinoma Medullary carcinoma Medullary breast carcinoma Medullary thyroid cancer Acinar cell Acinic cell carcinoma This article about a neoplasm is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Ductal_carcinoma responseCode 3 200 