icuktmkoegngygnswomeiimqbgloxiymumfctqxk length 6 137352 page 10382 Species of turtle Southern river terrapin (Batagur affinis) from a gazetted conservation site at Kuala Berang, Terengganu, Malaysia Conservation status Critically Endangered (IUCN 3.1)[1] CITES Appendix I (CITES)[2] Scientific classification Domain: Eukaryota Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genus: Batagur Species: B. affinis Binomial name Batagur affinis (Cantor, 1847)[3] The southern river terrapin (Batagur affinis)[3] is a turtle of the family Geoemydidae found in Malaysia, Indonesia and Cambodia.[4] Subspecies[edit] Batagur affinis affinis[4] Batagur affinis edwardmolli[4] Decline[edit] Many Asian turtles are in danger because of the thriving trade in animals in the region, where a species' rarity can add to its value on a menu or as a traditional medicine. The species was thought to have disappeared from Cambodia until it was rediscovered in 2001. Conservationists eventually began tagging the animals with tracking devices and monitoring their nests, and King Norodom Sihamoni personally ordered their protection. [5] Its eggs were a delicacy of the royal cuisine of Cambodia. In 2005, it was designated the national reptile of Cambodia in an effort to bring awareness and conservation for this species.[6] In July 2015, conservationists in Cambodia cautiously stated that efforts to bring back the species from the brink of extinction were having some success. A number of turtles, including breeding pairs, have been moved from enclosed areas into their intended home, the rivers and shores of Koh Kong where, it is hoped – with the ongoing monitoring and protection of locals and conservationists – they will begin to flourish.[7] They began their conservation effort by ensuring the safety of the hatchlings through fencing the nesting area of the species, given that the extremely low number of nests laid already.[8] In Malaysia, rivers of Kedah, Perak and Terengganu are major nesting grounds though the population continues to crash despite conservation efforts undertaken by Malaysian Wildlife Department for over 20 years. Pasir Temir and Pasir Lubuk Kawah by the Terengganu River are the largest nesting sites for Batagur baska in the world. See also[edit] Northern river terrapin References[edit] ^ Horne, B.D.; Chan, E.H.; Platt, S.G.; Moll, E.O. (2019). "Batagur affinis". IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 2019: e.T170501A152041284. doi:10.2305/IUCN.UK.2019-1.RLTS.T170501A152041284.en. Retrieved 19 November 2021. ^ "Appendices | CITES". cites.org. Retrieved 2022-01-14. ^ a b Rhodin 2010, pp. 000.107 ^ a b c Rhodin 2010, pp. 000.107-000, 108 ^ Platt, S.G.; Bryan L. Stuart; Heng Sovannara; Long Kheng, Kalyar and Heng Kimchhay (2003) "Rediscovery of the critically endangered river terrapin, Batagur baska, in Cambodia, with notes on occurrence, reproduction, and conservation status" Chelonian Conservation and Biology 4(3): 691 ^ ROYAL DECREE on Designation of Animals and Plants as National Symbols of the Kingdom of Cambodia ^ Laurenson, Jack. "'Royal Turtle' is Back from the Brink". Khmer Times | News Portal Cambodia |. Retrieved 2017-06-22. ^ Seah, Adeline, et al. “Last Exit before the Brink: Conservation Genomics of the Cambodian Population of the Critically Endangered Southern River Terrapin.” Ecology and Evolution., vol. 9, no. 17, Blackwell Pub Ltd, Sept. 2019, pp. 9500–10, doi:10.1002/ece3.5434. Bibliography Rhodin, Anders G.J.; van Dijk, Peter Paul; Inverson, John B.; Shaffer, H. Bradley (2010-12-14). "Turtles of the World 2010 Update: Annotated Checklist of Taxonomy, Synonymy, Distribution and Conservation Status" (PDF). Archived from the original (pdf) on 2011-07-17. Retrieved 2010-12-15. External links[edit] Turtle Survival Alliance Blog – Southern River Terrapin (Batagur affinis) Turtle Conservation Society of Malaysia Satellites to Track Rare Royal Turtle in Cambodia (Video) v t e Family Geoemydidae Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genera Species of the family Geoemydidae †Banhxeochelys †Banhxeochelys trani Batagur Burmese roofed turtle Northern river terrapin Painted terrapin Red-crowned roofed turtle Southern river terrapin Three-striped roofed turtle Cuora Amboina box turtle Bourret's box turtle Indochinese box turtle McCord's box turtle Keeled box turtle Pan's box turtle Southern Vietnamese box turtle Golden coin turtle Vietnamese three-striped box turtle Yellow-headed box turtle Chinese box turtle Yunnan box turtle Zhou's box turtle Cyclemys Asian leaf turtle Assam leaf turtle Eastern black-bridged leaf turtle Enigmatic leaf turtle Myanmar brown leaf turtle Oldham's leaf turtle Western black-bridged leaf turtle †Echmatemys †Echmatemys septaria †Echmatemys stevensoniana †Echmatemys wyomingensis Geoclemys Black pond turtle Geoemyda Black-breasted leaf turtle Ryukyu black-breasted leaf turtle Hardella Brahminy river turtle Heosemys Arakan forest turtle Giant Asian pond turtle Spiny turtle Yellow-headed temple turtle Leucocephalon Sulawesi forest turtle Malayemys Malayan snail-eating turtle Mekong snail-eating turtle Khorat snail-eating turtle Mauremys Balkan pond turtle Caspian turtle Chinese pond turtle Chinese stripe-necked turtle Japanese pond turtle Red-necked pond turtle Spanish pond turtle Vietnamese pond turtle Yellow pond turtle Melanochelys Indian black turtle Tricarinate hill turtle Morenia Burmese eyed turtle Indian eyed turtle Notochelys Malayan flat-shelled turtle Orlitia Malaysian giant turtle Pangshura Assam roofed turtle Brown roofed turtle Indian roofed turtle Indian tent turtle †Pangshura tatrotia Rhinoclemmys Black wood turtle Brown wood turtle Colombian wood turtle Furrowed wood turtle Large-nosed wood turtle Maracaibo wood turtle Mexican spotted wood turtle Painted wood turtle Spot-legged wood turtle †Rhinoclemmys panamaensis Sacalia Beale's eyed turtle Four-eyed turtle Siebenrockiella Black marsh turtle Philippine forest turtle Vijayachelys Cane turtle Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on turtles of the world 2017 update: Annotated checklist and atlas of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution, and conservation status. †=Extinct. v t e Testudines Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder Superfamily Family Genus Cryptodira Chelonioidea (Sea turtles) Cheloniidae †Allopleuron Caretta †Carolinochelys Chelonia †Eochelone Eretmochelys †Gigantatypus †Glarichelys †Itilochelys Lepidochelys †Mexichelys †Miocaretta Natator †Pacifichelys †Syllomus †Tasbacka Dermochelyidae †Arabemys †Bouliachelys †Corsochelys †Cosmochelys Dermochelys †Eosphargis †Mesodermochelys †Psephophorus †Alienochelys †Berruchelus †Euclastes †Peritresius †Procolpochelys †Protosphargis †Puppigerus Kinosternoidea Dermatemydidae Dermatemys Kinosternidae Claudius †Hoplochelys Kinosternon Staurotypus Sternotherus Testudinoidea Emydidae Chrysemys Clemmys Deirochelys Emys Actinemys Emydoidea Glyptemys Graptemys Malaclemys Pseudemys Terrapene Trachemys Geoemydidae Batagur †Banhxeochelys Cuora Cyclemys Geoclemys Geoemyda Hardella Heosemys Leucocephalon Malayemys Mauremys Melanochelys Morenia Notochelys Orlitia Pangshura Rhinoclemmys Sacalia Siebenrockiella Vijayachelys Platysternidae Platysternon Tortoises Aldabrachelys Astrochelys Centrochelys Chelonoidis Chersina Cylindraspis Geochelone Gopherus †Hadrianus †Hesperotestudo Homopus Indotestudo Kinixys Malacochersus Manouria †Megalochelys Psammobates Pyxis †Solitudo Stigmochelys †Stylemys Testudo Trionychia Carettochelyidae †Allaeochelys †Anosteira Carettochelys Trionychidae Amyda Apalone †Axestemys Chitra Cyclanorbis Cycloderma †Drazinderetes Dogania †Gilmoremys †Hutchemys †Khunnuchelys Lissemys Nilssonia Palea †Palaeoamyda Pelochelys Pelodiscus Rafetus Trionyx †Basilochelys †Sinaspideretes †Baenoidea †Baenidae †Arvinachelys †Baena †Cedrobaena †Chisternon †Denazinemys †Gamerabaena †Neurankylus †Palatobaena †Peckemys †Plesiobaena †Pleurosternidae †Dinochelys †Dorsetochelys †Glyptops †Pleurosternon †Selenemys Chelydridae †Acherontemys Chelydra †Chelydrops †Chelydropsis †Emarginachelys †Macrocephalochelys Macrochelys †Planiplastron †Protochelydra †Eurysternidae †Achelonia †Chelonides †Eurysternum †Hydropelta †Idiochelys †Palaeomedusa †Parachelys †Macrobaenidae †Anatolemys †Aurorachelys †Kirgizemys †Osteopygis †Yakemys †Nanhsiungchelyidae †Anomalochelys †Basilemys †Jiangxichelys †Protostegidae †Archelon †Atlantochelys †Atlantochelys †Calcarichelys †Cratochelone †Desmatochelys †Iserosaurus †Notochelone †Ocepechelon †Pneumatoarthrus †Protostega †Rhinochelys †Santanachelys †Terlinguachelys †Sinemydidae †Jeholochelys †Liaochelys †Manchurochelys †Ordosemys †Sinemys †Thalassemydidae †Neusticemys †Palaeomedusa †Thalassemys †Adocus †Angolachelys †Argillochelys †Bashuchelys †Brodiechelys †Ctenochelys †Compsemys †Hoyasemys †Larachelus †Leyvachelys †Plesiochelys †Prionochelys †Toxochelys †Uluops †Xinjiangchelys Pleurodira †Araripemydidae †Araripemys †Bothremydidae †Araiochelys †Arenila †Azabbaremys †Bothremys †Cearachelys †Chedighaii †Chupacabrachelys †Eotaphrosphys †Foxemys †Galianemys †Ilatardia †Inaechelys †Itapecuruemys †Jainemys †Kinkonychelys †Kurmademys †Labrostochelys †Nigeremys †Phosphatochelys †Polysternon †Puentemys †Rosasia †Rhothonemys †Sankuchemys †Taphrosphys †Ummulisani †Zolhafah Chelidae Acanthochelys Chelodina Chelus Elseya Elusor Emydura Hydromedusa †Lomalatachelys Mesoclemmys Myuchelys Phrynops Platemys †Prochelidella Pseudemydura Rheodytes Rhinemys †Yaminuechelys Pelomedusidae Pelomedusa Pelusios Podocnemididae †Albertwoodemys †Bauruemys †Brontochelys †Caninemys †Carbonemys †Cerrejonemys †Cordichelys Erymnochelys †Lapparentemys †Latentemys Peltocephalus Podocnemis †Stupendemys †Sahonachelyidae †Sahonachelys †Sokatra †Caribemys †Caririemys †Chubutemys †Hispaniachelys †Tacuarembemys Phylogenetic arran contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Southern_river_terrapin responseCode 3 200 