iczajmpegaosganeogxmpsjguizimajekissogom length 6 362559 page 10007 Incident involving multiple victims of firearm violence Aaron Alexis holding a shotgun during the Washington Navy Yard shooting A mass shooting is a violent crime in which one or more attackers kill or injure multiple individuals simultaneously using a firearm. There is no widely-accepted definition of "mass shooting" and different organizations tracking such incidents use different definitions. Definitions of mass shootings exclude warfare and sometimes exclude instances of gang violence, armed robberies, familicides and terrorism. The perpetrator of an ongoing mass shooting may be referred to as an active shooter. In the United States, the country with the most mass shootings, the Investigative Assistance for Violent Crimes Act of 2012 defines mass killings as three or more killings in a single incident.[1] A Congressional Research Service report from 2013 specifies four or more killings on indiscriminate victims while excluding violence committed as a means to an end, such as robbery or terrorism.[2] Media outlets such as CNN and some crime violence research groups such as the Gun Violence Archive define mass shootings as involving "four or more shot (injured or killed) in a single incident, at the same general time and location, not including the shooter".[3] Mother Jones magazine defines mass shootings as indiscriminate rampages killing three or more individuals excluding the perpetrator, gang violence, and armed robbery.[4][5] An Australian study from 2006 specifies five individuals killed.[6] The motive for mass shootings (that occur in public locations) is usually that they are committed by deeply disgruntled individuals who are seeking revenge for failures in school, career, romance, or life in general[7] or who are seeking fame or attention[8] with at least 16 mass shooters since the Columbine massacre citing fame or notoriety as a motive.[9] Fame seekers average more than double the body counts, and many articulated a desire to surpass "past records".[9] Definitions[edit] See also: Massacre, Mass murder, School shooting, and Spree shooting There are a variety of definitions of a mass shooting:[10][11] Mass Shooting Tracker, a crowdsourced data site cited by CNN, MSNBC, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Economist, the BBC, etc., defines a mass shooting as any incident in which four or more people are shot, whether injured or killed.[12][13] CBS defines a mass shooting as an event involving the shooting (not necessarily resulting in death) of five or more people (sometimes four)[14] with no cooling-off period.[12][14][15] Mother Jones defines a mass shooting as an indiscriminate rampage in a public place, resulting in three or more victims killed by the attacker, excluding gang violence, armed robbery, and attacks by unidentified perpetrators.[5][4] Crime violence research group Gun Violence Archive, whose research is used by major American media outlets, defines a mass shooting as having a "minimum of four victims shot, either injured or killed, not including any shooter who may also have been killed or injured in the incident," differentiating between a mass shooting and mass murder and not counting shooters as victims.[16] There are also different definitions of the term mass killing: Under U.S. federal law, the Attorney General – on a request from a state – may assist in investigating "mass killings", rather than mass shootings. The term is defined as the murder of four or more people with no cooling-off period[17][11] but redefined by Congress in 2013 as being the murder of three or more people.[18] In "Behind the Bloodshed", a report by USA Today, a mass killing is defined as any incident in which four or more were killed, including familial killings.[19] This definition is also used by the Washington Post.[20] According to the Investigative Assistance for Violent Crimes Act of 2012, signed into law in January 2013, a mass killing is defined as a killing with at least three deaths, excluding the perpetrator.[21][22] The lack of a single definition can lead to alarmism in the news media, with some reports conflating categories of different crimes.[23][24][25] An act of mass shooting is typically defined as terrorist when it "appears to have been intended" to intimidate or to coerce people;[26] although a mass shooting is not necessarily an act of terrorism solely by itself.[2] By continent and region[edit] This section needs to be updated. Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (April 2023) Africa[edit] Mass shootings have occurred on the African continent, including the 1927 shooting in South Africa perpetrated by Stephanus Swart, the 2016 Grand Bassam attack in Côte d'Ivoire/Ivory Coast, and the 1994 Kampala wedding massacre in Kampala, Uganda. Whilst incidents of mass violence resulting from terrorism and ethnic conflict have occurred on the continent, "mass shootings" as generally understood are rare in Africa. Egypt[edit] Various shootings include both the 1997 Luxor massacre and the 2013 Meet al-Attar shooting in Egypt. Kenya[edit] On 2 April 2015, armed terrorists stormed a public university in the North Eastern part of the country and killed 148 people. Asia[edit] Several mass shootings have occurred in Asia, including the 1878 Hyderabad shooting and 1983 Pashupatinath Temple shooting in India, the 1938 Tsuyama massacre in Japan, the 1948 Babrra massacre in Pakistan, the 2014 Peshawar school massacre killing 149 people, the 1993 Chongqing shooting and the 1994 Tian Mingjian incident in China, as well as the 2001 Nepalese royal massacre. China[edit] See also: Category:Mass shootings in China Mass shootings are rare occurrences in China due to the country's strict gun control laws, which prohibit private ownership of firearms.[citation needed]. There have been very few incidents of mass shootings in the past 40 years. One of the most notable incidents was the Chongqing shooting that occurred on 5 April 1993. The incident happened when a man named Chen Xuerong, a worker at the Chongqing machine factory, became angry over a mistake on his timesheet and armed himself with a hunting rifle, intending to kill his boss. When he discovered that his boss was not present, he turned his gun on his co-workers, killing three of them before being apprehended by the police. Another incident happened in Shanghai on June 22, 2013, when a man named Fan Jieming entered a shop and shot six people dead before turning the gun on himself. The motive for the shooting was reportedly a personal dispute. India[edit] See also: Category:Mass shootings in India Mass shootings and violent attacks in India have occurred throughout history, resulting in significant loss of life and trauma for those affected. While gun violence is relatively uncommon in India due to strict gun control laws, incidents of mass shootings and violent attacks continue to occur. In British India, the Jallianwala Bagh massacre took place on 13 April 1919, when an estimated 379–1500 Indian protesters were killed by the British Army, and an additional 1,200 were injured. One of the most notorious mass shootings in modern India was the 2008 Mumbai attacks, in which 10 gunmen affiliated with the terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba attacked multiple targets in Mumbai, killing 175 people and injuring hundreds more. The attack lasted for four days and one of the perpetrators was sentenced to death. Other notable incidents include the 2001 Indian Parliament attack, in which five gunmen attacked the parliament building in New Delhi, killing nine people, and the 2016 Pathankot attack, in which militants attacked an Indian Air Force base in Pathankot, killing seven security personnel. Mass shootings have also occurred in the context of regional conflicts. For example, the 2014 Chhattisgarh attack involved Naxalite militants attacking a convoy of political leaders and security personnel, killing 15 people, while the 2021 Sukma-Bijapur attack involved Naxalite rebels attacking security forces, resulting in the deaths of at least 22 security personnel. Israel[edit] See also: Category:Mass shootings in Israel Mass shootings have occurred in Israel, often carried out by Palestinian extremists and by Jewish extremists. Notable mass shootings in Israel, include the 1972 Lod Airport Massacre, which killed 26 and injured 80, the 2002 Bat Mitzvah massacre in Hadera, Mercaz HaRav Massacre in 2008, the 2014 Jerusalem synagogue attack in Jerusalem, the June 2016 Tel Aviv shooting at the popular Sarona centre complex in Tel Aviv, and the Re'im music festival massacre in 2023. There have been mass shootings by Jews in Israel and Palestine. Ami Popper was convicted of murdering seven Palestinian men in a mass shooting carried out in 1990. In 1994, terrorist Baruch Goldstein murdered 29 Muslims and injured a further 125 in Hebron during the Cave of the Patriarchs massacre. Other notable mass shootings include the 2002 Hadera attack, the 2005 Shilo shooting, and the 2013 Beersheba shooting. In April 2022, a mass shooting occurred on Dizengoff Street in Tel Aviv, in which a Palestinian gunman killed three civilians and injured six. In January 2023, a Palestinian gunman killed at least seven civilians in the Israeli settlement of Neve Yaakov in occupied East Jerusalem. The suspect is also reported to have shot at worshippers exiting a synagogue and was shot and killed by attending police officers. This was Israel's deadliest peacetime Palestinian attack since the Mercaz HaRav Massacre in 2008, since surpassed by the Re'im music festival massacre in October 2023. Japan[edit] Japan has as few as two gun-related homicides per year. These numbers include all homicides in the country, not just mass shootings.[27] Japan has had several mass shootings, including the Tsuyama massacre, 2007 Sasebo shooting, and the 2010 Habikino shooting. South Korea[edit] Mass shootings are extremely rare in South Korea. The deadliest mass shoot contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Mass_shooting responseCode 3 200 