ikpgpiyeievedkmaogmsfkymracerkrkwansncmm page 10015 Census region of the US This article is about the political region. For the geographically southern part of the United States, see Sun Belt. For the cultural region of the southern United States, see Dixie. Region Southern United States Region Left-right from top: Houston skyline, Jackson Square in New Orleans, Florida International University in Florida, Rainbow Row in Charleston, Virginia State Capitol in Richmond, Ryman Auditorium in Nashville, Great Smoky Mountains, Atlanta skyline, Tennessee farmland This map reflects the Southern United States as defined by the Census Bureau.[1] Subregions South Atlantic West South Central East South Central Southeastern United States Deep South Upland South Mid-Atlantic Country United States States Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia as defined by the Census Bureau.[1] Regional definitions may vary slightly from source to source. Federal district District of Columbia Population (2020[2]) • Total 126,266,107 Demonym(s) Southerner, Southron (historically) Languages Creole languages Kouri-Vini Gullah English variants African American English Appalachian English High Tider Middle Atlantic Native American English New Orleans English Southern American English Texan English Indigenous languages Alabama Caddo Catawban Cherokee Chickasaw Choctaw Comanche Kickapoo Koasati Mikasuki Muskogee Solano Southern Tiwa Tunica Tuscarora 'Louisiana French Spanish The Southern United States (sometimes Dixie, also referred to as the Southern States, the American South, the Southland, Dixieland, or simply the South) is a geographic and cultural region of the United States of America. It is between the Atlantic Ocean and the Western United States, with the Midwestern and Northeastern United States to its north and the Gulf of Mexico and Mexico to its south. Historically, the South was defined as all states south of the 18th century Mason–Dixon line, the Ohio River, and 36°30′ parallel.[3] Within the South are different subregions, such as the Southeast, South Central, Upper South and Deep South. Due to an influx of Northern transplants since the mid-to-late 20th century, Maryland, Delaware, Northern Virginia, and Washington, D.C. have become more culturally, economically, and politically aligned in certain aspects with the Northeastern United States, and are often identified as part of the Mid-Atlantic region or Northeast by many residents, businesses, public institutions, and private organizations.[4] However, the United States Census Bureau continues to define them as in the South with regard to Census regions.[5] Due to cultural variations across the region, some scholars have proposed definitions of the South that do not coincide neatly with state boundaries.[6][7] The South does not precisely correspond to the entire geographic south of the United States, but primarily includes the south-central and southeastern states. For example, California, which is geographically in the southwestern part of the country, is not considered part of the South. However, the geographically southeastern state of Georgia is.[8][9][10] The South, being home to some of the most racially diverse areas in the United States, is known for having developed its own distinct culture, with different customs, fashion, architecture, musical styles, and cuisines, which have distinguished it in many ways from other areas of the United States. From 1860 to 1861, eleven Southern states plus an additional two Southern states that were claimed and partially controlled seceded from the Union, forming the Confederate States of America. Following the American Civil War, these states were subsequently added back to the Union. Sociological research indicates that Southern collective identity stems from political, historical, demographic, and cultural distinctiveness from the rest of the United States, however this has declined since around the late 20th century with many Southern areas becoming a melting pot of cultures and people. Ethnic groups in the South were the most diverse among American regions, and include strong European (especially English, Scots-Irish, Scottish, Irish, French, and Spanish), African, and Native American components.[11] Aspects of the historical and cultural development of the South were influenced by the institution of slave labor, especially in the Deep South and coastal plain areas, from the early 1600s to mid-1800s. This includes the presence of a large proportion of African Americans within the population, support for the doctrine of states' rights, and legacy of racism magnified by the Civil War and Reconstruction era (1865–1877). Following effects included thousands of lynchings (mostly from 1880 to 1930), a segregated system of separate schools and public facilities established from Jim Crow laws that remained until the 1960s, and the widespread use of poll taxes and other methods to deny black and poor people the ability to vote or hold office until the 1960s. Scholars have characterized pockets of the Southern United States as being authoritarian enclaves from Reconstruction until the Civil Rights Act of 1964.[12][13][14][15] Since the 1970s, with improved racial relations, a growing economic base and job opportunities in the region, the South has seen increases of African Americans moving back from other U.S. regions in a New Great Migration.[16] When looked at broadly, studies have shown that Southerners tend to be more conservative than most non-Southerners, with liberalism being mostly predominant in places with a Black majority or urban areas in the South.[17][18] Although historically a Democratic stronghold, most states in the region have in recent decades come to favor Republicans, although both the Republican and Democratic Party are competitive in certain Southern swing states. The region contains almost all of the Bible Belt, an area of high Protestant church attendance, especially evangelical churches such as the Southern Baptist Convention. Historically, the South relied heavily on agriculture as its main economic base, and was predominantly rural until after World War II. Since the 1940s, the region has become more economically diversified and metropolitan, helping attract both national and international migrants. In the 21st century, it is the fastest-growing region in the United States, with Houston being the region's largest city.[19][20] Geography[edit] Texas Hill Country Bluegrass region, Kentucky Glass Mountains, Oklahoma North Carolina's Appalachian Mountains Field of yellow wildflowers in Saint Bernard Parish, Louisiana Pearl River backwater in Mississippi Misty Bluff along the Buffalo River, Ozark Mountains, Arkansas Tidal wetlands of the Chesapeake Bay in Maryland Cherry River in West Virginia The highlands of Grayson County in Southwest Virginia The South is a diverse meteorological region with numerous climatic zones, including temperate, sub-tropical, tropical and arid – though the South generally has a reputation as hot and humid, with long summers and short, mild winters. Most of the South – except for the areas of higher elevations and areas near the western, southern and some northern fringes – fall in the humid subtropical climate zone. Crops grow readily in the South due to its climate consistently providing growing seasons of at least six months before the first frost. Some common environments include bayous and swamplands, the southern pine forests, the warm temperate montane forest of the Appalachians, the savannas of the southern Great Plains, and the subtropical jungle and maritime forests along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Unique flora include various species of magnolia, rhododendron, cane, palm, and oak, among others. Fauna of the region is also diverse, encompassing a plethora of amphibian species, reptiles such as the green anole, the venomous cottonmouth snake, and the American alligator, mammals like the American black bear, the swamp rabbit and the nine-banded armadillo, and birds such as the roseate spoonbill and the extinct but symbolic carolina parakeet. The question of how to define the boundaries and subregions in the South has been the focus of research and debate for centuries.[21][22] As defined by the United States Census Bureau,[1] the Southern region of the United States includes sixteen states. As of 2010, an estimated 114,555,744 people, or thirty seven percent of all U.S. residents, lived in the South, the nation's most populous region.[23] The Census Bureau defined three smaller divisions: The South Atlantic States: Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. The East South Central States: Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi and Tennessee. The West South Central States: Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas. The Council of State Governments, an organization for communication and coordination between states, includes in its South regional office the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia.[24] Other terms related to the South include: The Old South: Can mean either southern states that were among the Thirteen Colonies (Virginia, Delaware, Maryland, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina) or all southern slave states before 1860 (which also includes Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas).[25] The New South: All southern states following the American Civil War, post Reconstruction era.[26] Southeastern United States: Usually includes the Carolinas, the Virginias, Tennessee, Kentucky, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and Florida.[27] Southern Appalachia: Mainly refers to areas situated in the southern Appalachian Mountains, namely Eastern Kentucky, East Tennesse contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Southern_United_States responseCode 3 200 