ikyiggqgeexqjeumsiqgoipobalaqecimkhspclm length 6 454051 page 10030 For the homonymous party founded in 1976, see People's Party (Spain, 1976). "Reformist Centre" redirects here. For reformism in politics more generally, see Reformism. This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "People's Party" Spain – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2014) (template removal help) The neutrality of this article is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (June 2021) (template removal help) You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Spanish. (June 2021) Click [show] for important translation instructions. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 5,135 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Spanish Wikipedia article at [[:es:Partido Popular]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|es|Partido Popular}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. (template removal help) Political party in Spain People's Party Partido Popular Abbreviation PP President Alberto Núñez Feijóo Secretary-General Cuca Gamarra Spokesperson in Congress Cuca Gamarra Spokesperson in Senate Javier Maroto Founder Manuel Fraga Founded 20 January 1989 (1989-01-20) Merger of People's Alliance Christian Democracy Liberal Party Headquarters Headquarters of the People's Party, C/ Génova, 13 28004, Madrid Youth wing New Generations Membership (2018) 66,706[1][2][3] Ideology Conservatism[11] Liberal conservatism[12][13][14] Christian democracy[14][15][16] Pro-Europeanism[17] Political position Centre-right[18][19] to right-wing[20] European affiliation European People's Party International affiliation Centrist Democrat International International Democrat Union European Parliament group European People's Party Colours Sky blue Anthem "Himno del Partido Popular"[21] "Anthem of the People's Party" Congress of Deputies 137 / 350 Senate 140 / 266 European Parliament (Spanish seats) 13 / 59 Regional parliaments 458 / 1,261 Regional governments 13 / 19 Local government 23,412 / 60,941 Website www.pp.es Politics of Spain Political parties Elections The People's Party[22] (Spanish: Partido Popular [paɾˈtiðo popuˈlaɾ] ⓘ; known mostly by its acronym, PP [peˈpe]) is a conservative[23][14] and Christian-democratic[14][15] political party in Spain. The People's Party was a 1989 re-foundation of People's Alliance (AP), a party led by former minister of the Francoist dictatorship Manuel Fraga. It was founded in 1976 as alliance of post-Francoist proto-parties. The new party combined the conservative AP with several small Christian democratic and liberal parties (the party calling this fusion of views "the Reformist Centre"). In 2002, Manuel Fraga received the honorary title of "Founding Chairman". The party's youth organization is New Generations of the People's Party of Spain (NNGG). The PP is a member of the centre-right European People's Party (EPP), and in the European Parliament its 16 MEPs sit in the EPP Group. The PP is also a member of the Centrist Democrat International and the International Democrat Union. The PP was also one of the founding organizations of the Budapest-based Robert Schuman Institute for Developing Democracy in Central and Eastern Europe. On 24 May 2018, the National Court found that the PP profited from the illegal kickbacks-for-contracts scheme of the Gürtel case, confirming the existence of an illegal accounting and financing structure that ran in parallel with the party's official one since the party's foundation in 1989; the court ruled that the PP helped establish "a genuine and effective system of institutional corruption through the manipulation of central, autonomous and local public procurement".[24][25] This prompted a no confidence vote on Mariano Rajoy's government, which was brought down on 1 June 2018 in the first successful motion since the Spanish transition to democracy.[26] On 5 June 2018, Rajoy announced his resignation as PP leader.[27][28] On 21 July 2018, Pablo Casado was elected as the new leader of the PP. Under his leadership, the party was claimed to take a right-wing turn, including forging local alliances with the far-right Vox party.[29] However, Casado later bet on breaking ties with Vox,[30] and caused an unprecedented leadership crisis inside PP.[31] After this there were rumors that Casado had ordered to spy on the popular president of the community of Madrid, Isabel Díaz Ayuso, for alleged irregularities, which collapsed popular support for PP according to opinion polls for future national elections,[32] being resolved with the resignation of Casado and the appointment of the veteran Alberto Núñez Feijóo as the new leader, which improved the electoral expectations of the party.[citation needed] The party was the most voted one in the 2023 general election, but it failed to secure a parliamentary majority.[33][34] History[edit] Political genealogy[edit] Main article: People's Alliance (Spain) Fraga in 1983 The party has its roots in the People's Alliance founded on 9 October 1976 by former Francoist minister Manuel Fraga. Although Fraga was a member of the reformist faction of the Franco regime, he supported an extremely gradual transition to democracy. However, he badly underestimated the public's distaste for Francoism. Additionally, while he attempted to convey a reformist image, the large number of former Francoists in the party led the public to perceive it as both reactionary and authoritarian. In the June 1977 general election, the AP garnered only 8.3 percent of the vote, putting it in fourth place. In the months following the 1977 elections, dissent erupted within the AP over constitutional issues that arose as the draft document was being formulated. Fraga had wanted from the beginning to brand the party as a traditional European conservative party, and wanted to move the AP toward the political centre in order to form a larger centre-right party. Fraga's wing won the struggle, prompting most of the disenchanted reactionaries to leave the party. The AP then joined with other moderate conservatives to form the Democratic Coalition (Coalición Democrática, CD). It was hoped that this new coalition would capture the support of those who had voted for the Union of the Democratic Centre (UCD) in 1977, but who had become disenchanted with the Adolfo Suárez government. In the March 1979 general election, however, the CD received 6.1 percent of the vote, again finishing a distant fourth. At the AP's Second Party Congress in December 1979, party leaders re-assessed their involvement in the CD. Many felt that the creation of the coalition had merely confused the voters, and they sought to emphasise the AP's independent identity. Fraga resumed control of the party, and the political resolutions adopted by the party congress reaffirmed the conservative orientation of the AP. In the early 1980s, Fraga succeeded in rallying the various components of the right around his leadership. He was aided in his efforts to revive the AP by the increasing disintegration of the UCD. In the general elections held in October 1982, the AP gained votes both from previous UCD supporters and from the far right. It became the major opposition party to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, securing 25.4 percent of the popular vote. Whereas the AP's parliamentary representation had dropped to 9 seats in 1979, the party allied itself with the small Christian democratic People's Democratic Party (PDP) and won 106 seats in 1982. The increased strength of the AP was further evidenced in the municipal and regional elections held in May 1983, when the party drew 26 percent of the vote. A significant portion of the electorate appeared to support the AP's emphasis on law and order as well as its pro-business policies. Headquarters on Calle de Génova in Madrid. As the party seat, the term Génova is often used as a metonym for the party leadership. Subsequent political developments belied the party's aspirations to continue increasing its base of support. Prior to the June 1986 elections, the AP joined forces with the PDP and the Liberal Party (PL) to form the People's Coalition (CP), in another attempt to expand its constituency to include the centre of the political spectrum. The coalition called for stronger measures against terrorism, for more privatisation, and for a reduction in public spending and in taxes. The CP failed to increase its share of the vote in the 1986 elections, however, and it soon began to disintegrate. When regional elections in late 1986 resulted in further losses for the coalition, Fraga resigned as AP chairman, although he retained his parliamentary seat. At the party congress in February 1987, Antonio Hernández Mancha was chosen to head the AP, declaring that under his leadership the AP would become a "modern right-wing European party". But Hernández Mancha lacked contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 58 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/People%27s_Party_(Spain) responseCode 3 200 