ioagdcfklsvkigoebcmotkpkxqhcccwotcjczgfk length 6 225473 page 10150 Planning Area in Central Region, Central Area, Singapore This article is about a district in Singapore. For other places with similar or exact names in the United States, see Orchard Road (disambiguation). This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (September 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Planning Area in Central Region ----, Singapore Orchard Planning Area Other transcription(s) • Chinese 乌节 • Malay Orchard • Tamil ஆர்ச்சர்ட் From top left to right: ION Orchard at night, Wheelock Place at night, Ngee Ann City, Orchard Central at night, Shaw House and Paragon Location in Central Region Orchard Orchard in Singapore Show map of Singapore Orchard Orchard (Asia) Show map of Asia Orchard Orchard (Earth) Show map of Earth Coordinates: 1°18′17.4″N 103°49′54.6″E﻿ / ﻿1.304833°N 103.831833°E﻿ / 1.304833; 103.831833 Country Singapore Region Central Region CDC Central Singapore CDC Town council Tanjong Pagar Town Council Constituency Tanjong Pagar GRC DGP exhibited 1994[1] PA incorporated 22 January 1999[1] Government • Mayor Central Singapore CDC Denise Phua • Members of Parliament Tanjong Pagar GRC Alvin Tan Joan Pereira Area [2] • Total 0.96 km2 (0.37 sq mi) • Rank 52nd Population (2018)[2][3] • Total 990 • Rank 37th • Density 1,000/km2 (2,700/sq mi) • Rank 33rd Demonym Official Orchard resident Postal district 9 Orchard Road, often known colloquially as simply Orchard, is a major 2.5 km (1.6 mi)–long road in the Central Area of Singapore.[4] A famous tourist attraction, it is an upscale shopping area, with numerous internationally renowned department stores, restaurants and coffeehouses located in its vicinity.[4] The Orchard Planning Area is a planning area as specified by the Urban Redevelopment Authority. It is part of the Central Area located within the Central Region. Orchard is bordered by Newton in the east and north, Tanglin in the west, River Valley in the south and Museum to the southeast. Toponymy[edit] Orchard Road got its name from the nutmeg, pepper and fruit orchards or the plantations that the road once led to.[5] Such plantations were common in the area in the 19th century.[6] Previously, it was known in Hokkien as "Tang Leng Pa Sat Koi" (simplified Chinese: 东陵巴刹街; traditional Chinese: 東陵巴剎街; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Tang-lêng Pa-sat-koe; lit. 'Tanglin Market Street'), and in Tamil, it was known as "Vairakimadam" (Tamil: வயிராகி மடம், romanized: Vayirāki maṭam, lit. 'Fakir's place') inside town limits and "Māttu Than" (Tamil: மேட்டு தான், romanized: Mēṭṭu tāṉ, lit. 'High Ground') from Koek's Market to Upper Tanglin.[7] Geography[edit] After more than a century as a two-way thoroughfare, Orchard Road became a one-way street east of Scotts Road in 1974.[8][6] and entirely in 1977 when Orchard Boulevard was completed.[9] The ever-lively street starts at the junction with Orange Grove Road which is the location of the Orchard Hotel. It then stretches southeast across the Scotts Road–Paterson Hill junction, Orchard MRT station, Bideford Road, Somerset MRT station, Central Expressway, Dhoby Ghaut MRT station, and ends at the junction with Handy Road (just before Prinsep Street), where it becomes Bras Basah Road. It has an extensive underground infrastructure, including underground pedestrian walkways between the malls running underneath the street and other streets in the vicinity. The numbers begin at Handy Road and end at Orange Grove Road. History[edit] Orchard Road in 1900 ION Orchard British administration[edit] Orchard Road was already cut in the 1830s, though the new road was not named in George Coleman's 1836 Map of Singapore. In the 1830s the Orchard Road area was the scene of gambier and pepper plantations. Later, nutmeg plantations and fruit orchards predominated, hence its name. By 1846, the spread of houses had reached up to Tank Road. There were none on the left side and only three or four houses went past Tank Road on the right side of Orchard Road. One major sight during this period was a Dr. Jun tending his garden, which helped endorse the road's name. He had a garden and plantation at the corner of what is now Scotts Road and Orchard Road. Towards the later part of the 1840s, graveyards began to appear along the road. By 1846, the Chinese had a large graveyard around what is now the Hilton Singapore Orchard and Ngee Ann City, while the Sumatrans from Bencoolen had their burial ground where the current Hotel Grand Central stands. Later a Jewish cemetery was established; it was located where Dhoby Ghaut MRT station is now and was demolished in 1984. In the 1860s, Orchard Road had a great number of private houses and bungalows on hills looking down through the valley where the road passed through. Early in the 1890s, King Chulalongkorn, the then King of Siam, acquired "Hurricane House" in the vicinity of Orchard Road through Tan Kim Ching, the Thai Consul in Singapore. Two further pieces of adjoining property fronting onto Orchard Road were purchased in 1897. These subsequently became the site of the Royal Thai Embassy at 370 Orchard Road.[10] Hurricane House was sold off around 1909[11] shortly before the King's death. In the early 20th century, it was noted that Orchard Road "present[ed] the appearance of a well-shaded avenue to English mansion[s]," comparable in its "quiet but effective beauty to Devonshire lanes." In the 1960s, a group of Indonesian forces bombed the MacDonald House in Singapore, just a few months before Singapore got its independence from Malaysia. A number of people were killed and the police managed to execute the two military officers responsible for this.[12] Smoking ban[edit] Orchard Road was initially designated to be completely smoke-free with the exception of designated smoking areas by 1 July 2018. However, the implementation was pushed back to 31 December 2018, as businesses will need more time to identify appropriate locations and set up designated areas for smoking, according to the National Environment Agency (NEA).[13][14] Food establishments that currently have smoking corners within the no-smoking zones will also be given the same extension to remove them. Currently, around 40 designated smoking areas have been set up, including five public ones at Orchard Towers, Far East Plaza, The Heeren, Cuppage Terrace, and behind Somerset MRT station. Since its announcement, NEA has said that the majority of stakeholders have been supportive of this initiative.[13] As of 1 January 2019, Orchard Road was officially declared as a strictly smoke-free zone except within the designated smoking areas.[15] Notable past and present landmarks[edit] Facade of Orchard Central Plaza Singapura is a major shopping centre in Orchard At Orchard Road's eastern end is the official residence and office of the President of Singapore, the Istana, marked with Nibong palms and a plaque that reads, "As the nibong is a mangrove palm, this site must have once been a mangrove swamp." Singapore's first Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew's house is located at 38 Oxley Road, which is just south of Orchard Road. On the western side of Orchard Road is the Singapore Botanic Gardens, the only tropical garden in the world that is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. About halfway down Orchard Road are Cairnhill and Emerald Hill which are mainly private residential areas. Next to Emerald Hill is Centrepoint, which houses the supermarket Cold Storage, the oldest surviving business establishment in the area. Amber Mansions, one of the earliest apartment blocks in Singapore which was built around the turn of the 20th century, was torn down in the 1980s to make way for the Dhoby Ghaut MRT station. Specialists' Shopping Centre was one of the earliest redevelopment projects on Orchard Road. It occupied the site of the former Pavilion Cinema, which was demolished in 1979. Specialists' Shopping Centre was itself demolished in 2007 to make way for new development, called Orchard Gateway. Elsewhere just off Orchard Road is Scotts Road. Scotts Shopping Centre housed Singapore's first food court, which sat below the Ascott Singapore. It was torn down in June 2007 to make way for Scotts Square. Shopping[edit] The first shop of note on Orchard Road was Tangs founded in 1934 and established on Orchard Road in the 1950s. Orchard Road shopping malls do include ION Orchard, Wisma Atria, Ngee Ann City, Orchard Central, Orchard Gateway, 313 @ Somerset, Orchard Plaza, Plaza Singapura, The Centrepoint, The Heeren, Mandarin Gallery, Cathay Cineleisure Orchard, Wheelock Place, Liat Towers, Shaw House and Scotts Square. Prominent tenants in the shopping malls include Don Don Donki (Orchard Central), Courts Nojima (The Heeren), Decathlon (The Centrepoint), Marks & Spencer (Plaza Singapura, Paragon and Wheelock Place), Rubi Shoes (ION Orchard), Cotton On (ION Orchard, 313 @ Somerset and Plaza Singapura), Castlery (Liat Towers), Melissa (Wheelock Place including a collaboration with Outside+ at ION Orchard), Zara (313 @ Somerset), Love Bonito (ION Orchard and 313 @ Somerset), Uniqlo (ION Orchard, 313 @ Somerset and Plaza Singapura), IORA (Wisma Atria and 313 @ Somerset), Takashimaya (Ngee Ann City), Sephora (Ngee Ann City, ION Orchard and Plaza Singapura), H&M (Orchard Building), Apple Store (270 Orchard Road which was opened in 2017).[16] Retailers have been closing down shops during COVID-19 pandemic, these include the American fashion retailer Abercrombie & Fitch opened a flagship store on Orchard Road on 15 December 2011, Forever 21 store at 313 @ Somerset, Zara store at Liat Towers, Topshop store at ION Orchard, H&M store at ION Orchard, Robinsons store at The Heeren and Bershka store at ION Orchard.[17] In 2017, technology company Apple opened an official Apple Store on Orchard Road.[16] Transport[edit] Public transport[edit] Orchard M contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Orchard_Road responseCode 3 200 