iogqugnexkceisisnqyqzajqhkqsqatkbetssmdq length 6 106161 page 9050 Public body to protect the historical environment of England Historic England Formation 1 April 2015 (2015-04-01) Legal status Non-departmental public body Headquarters The Engine House, Fire Fly Avenue, Swindon, SN2 2EH[1] Region served England Chairman Sir Laurie Magnus Chief Executive Duncan Wilson Staff 884[2] Website historicengland.org.uk Historic England (officially the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England) is an executive non-departmental public body of the British Government sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. It is tasked with protecting the historic environment of England by preserving and listing historic buildings, scheduling ancient monuments, registering historic parks and gardens and by advising central and local government. The body was officially created by the National Heritage Act 1983, and operated from April 1984 to April 2015 under the name of English Heritage.[3] In 2015, following the changes to English Heritage's structure that moved the protection of the National Heritage Collection into the voluntary sector in the English Heritage Trust; the body that remained was rebranded as Historic England.[4] The body also inherited the Historic England Archive from the old English Heritage, and projects linked to the archive such as Britain from Above, which saw the archive work with the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales and the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland to digitise, catalogue and put online 96,000 of the oldest Aerofilms images. The archive also houses various national collections, including the results of older projects, such as the Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England and Images of England (providing online access to images of listed buildings in England as of 2002). Remit[edit] Historic England's Swindon office, home to its Archives Historic England's former London office at Holborn Bars Historic England inherited English Heritage's position as the UK government's statutory adviser and a statutory consultee on all aspects of the historic environment and its heritage assets.[5] This includes archaeology on land and underwater, historic buildings sites and areas, designated landscapes and the historic elements of the wider landscape.[6] It monitors and reports on the state of England's heritage and publishes the annual Heritage at Risk survey which is one of the UK government's official statistics. It is tasked to secure the preservation and enhancement of the human-made heritage of England for the benefit of future generations.[6] Its remit involves: Caring for nationally important archive collections of photographs, drawings and other records which document the historic environment of England and date from the eighteenth century onwards. Giving grants to national and local organisations for the conservation of historic buildings, monuments and landscapes. In 2013/14 over £13 million worth of grants were made to support heritage buildings.[7] Advising central UK government on which English heritage assets are nationally important and should be protected by designation (i.e. listing, scheduling, etc.).[8][9] Administering and maintaining the register of England's listed buildings, scheduled monuments, registered battlefields, World Heritage Sites and protected parks and gardens.[10] This is published online as the National Heritage List for England. Advising local authorities on managing changes to the most important parts of heritage. Providing expertise through advice, training and guidance to improve the standards and skills of people working in heritage, practical conservation and access to resources. In 2009–2010 it trained around 200 professionals working in local authorities and the wider sector.[7] Consulting and collaborating with other heritage bodies, local and national planning organisations e.g. the preparation of the 2010 Planning Policy statement for the Historic Environment (PPS5).[11] Commissioning and conducting archaeological research, including the publication of Heritage Counts[12] and Heritage at Risk on behalf of the heritage sector; these are annual research surveys into the state of England's heritage. It is not responsible for approving alterations to listed buildings. The management of listed buildings is the responsibility of local planning authorities and the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.[11] Historic England also owns the National Heritage Collection of nationally important historic sites, currently in public care. However, it does not run these sites as this function is instead carried out by the English Heritage Trust under licence until 2023.[13] See also[edit] Conservation in the United Kingdom – Overview of the structure of environmental and cultural conservation in the UK Heritage Open Days – Annual celebration of England's architecture Cadw – Welsh Government historic environment service Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales – Archival institution in Wales Historic Scotland – Executive agency responsible for historic monuments in Scotland Manx National Heritage – National heritage organisation of the Isle of Man National Trust – Conservation organisation in England, Wales and Northern Ireland National Trust for Scotland – Conservation charity that protects and promotes Scotland's natural and cultural heritage Natural England – UK non-departmental public body Northern Ireland Environment Agency – Northern Irish executive agency Lists List of Conservation topics List of heritage registers List of country houses in the United Kingdom List of museums in England References[edit] ^ "Historic England Limited". Companies House. Retrieved 20 December 2019. ^ Historic England Annual Report 2018–19 ^ "Historic England's Role". Historic England. Retrieved 6 April 2015. ^ "New Era for England's Heritage". English Heritage. Retrieved 6 April 2015. ^ "Historic Environment". Retrieved 16 May 2011. ^ a b "Funding of the Arts and Heritage". Retrieved 16 May 2011. ^ a b "English Heritage Annual Report and Accounts". Historic England. English Heritage. Archived from the original on 13 April 2015. Retrieved 6 April 2015. ^ "Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979". Retrieved 16 May 2011. ^ "National Heritage Act 1983, Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England". Retrieved 16 May 2011. ^ "Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990". Retrieved 16 May 2011. ^ a b "Planning Policy Statement 5: Planning for the Historic Environment". Government of the United Kingdom. 23 March 2010. Archived from the original on 27 March 2010 – via Internet Archive. ^ "Heritage Counts". historicengland.org.uk. Retrieved 2 June 2022. ^ "Historic England and the English Heritage Trust". Historic England. Retrieved 6 April 2015. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Historic England. Official website The Historic England Archive: search over 1 million catalogue entries describing photographs, plans and drawings of England's buildings and historic sites Britain from Above: the Aerofilms collection of aerial photographs, 1919–1953 National Heritage List for England v t e Department for Culture, Media and Sport Headquarters: 100 Parliament Street Ministers Secretary of State Lucy Frazer Minister of State Minister of State for Media, Tourism and Creative Industries: Julia Lopez Under-Secretaries of State Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for Sport, Gambling and Civil Society: Stuart Andrew Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Arts and Heritage: The Lord Parkinson of Whitley Bay Non-ministerial departments Charity Commission The National Archives Non-departmental public bodies Advisory Advisory Council on National Records and Archives Reviewing Committee on the Export of Works of Art and Objects of Cultural Interest Theatres Trust Treasure Valuation Committee Executive Arts Council England Birmingham Organising Committee for the 2022 Commonwealth Games British Film Institute Gambling Commission Historic England Horserace Betting Levy Board Information Commissioner's Office National Heritage Memorial Fund National Lottery Community Fund Sport England Sports Grounds Safety Authority UK Anti-Doping UK Sport VisitBritain VisitEngland Museums British Library British Museum Horniman Museum Museum of the Home Imperial War Museums National Gallery National Museums Liverpool National Portrait Gallery Natural History Museum Royal Armouries Royal Museums Greenwich Science Museum Group Sir John Soane's Museum Tate Victoria and Albert Museum Wallace Collection Tribunal Horserace Betting Levy Appeal Tribunal Other bodies BBC BBC Board Channel Four Television Corporation Churches Conservation Trust Historic Royal Palaces Ofcom Phone-paid Services Authority S4C S4C Authority National Citizen Service The Royal Parks Category Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF National Israel United States contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Historic_England responseCode 3 200 