ioqcaoeitagasiucfatkgshilepagqucbedqselk length 6 227604 page 10005 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 30 November 2019 00:00, 30 November 2019 (UTC) Gongnyong Ridge ... that Gongnyong Ridge (pictured) in Seoraksan National Park, South Korea, acquired its name (lit. 'Dinosaur Ridge') from its peaks looking as "vigorous and dynamic as a dinosaur rising from the ground"? ... that Ellie Morrison is the first woman to serve as the national commissioner of the Boy Scouts of America since its incorporation in 1910? ... that the massive Sasanian fortification of Iraj Castle lacks any structure in its interior? ... that acting U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf stated that, as chief of staff, it was not his responsibility to determine whether the Trump administration family separation policy was right or wrong? ... that the parasitic wasp Lathrolestes luteolator has adopted the amber-marked birch leaf miner as a new host? ... that Hedwig Porschütz, who rescued Jews during the Holocaust, was not honoured as an "unsung heroine" in West Berlin because she had been a prostitute? ... that Vermont's first FM radio station renamed itself WQCR, standing for "Wonderful Queen City Radio", in 1972? ... that the Queen briefly lived at 77 South Audley Street? 29 November 2019 00:00, 29 November 2019 (UTC) Opening night of the film Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder ... that Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder, a film adaptation of Bertolt Brecht's play with the Berliner Ensemble, premiered on the author's birthday (opening night pictured)? ... that American politician Safiya Wazir came to Uzbekistan as a refugee from Afghanistan? ... that the 2019 Basshunter song "Home" was described as a throwback to the bounce music of the 2000s? ... that Zeng Rongsheng organized a Sino-American joint investigation of the geology of the Tibetan Plateau and examined the collision process of the Indian Plate with the Eurasian Plate? ... that the Northwestern Lumberman, known originally as the Lumbermen's Gazette, was the first trade magazine for the U.S. lumber industry? ... that the ambrosia beetle Euplatypus parallelus cultivates fungi in the galleries it creates for its larvae? ... that Alexandrea Owens became known as "the Titanic girl" after performing with Leonardo DiCaprio in the James Cameron epic at the age of eight? ... that a local story suggests that, in 1912, a cow swam the entire 1,630-yard (0.93 mi; 1.49 km) length of the Foulridge Tunnel before being pulled out and revived with some brandy? 28 November 2019 00:00, 28 November 2019 (UTC) Eugen Ernst ... that the appointment of Eugen Ernst (pictured) as president of the Berlin police prompted the Spartacist uprising of 1919? ... that a man claiming to be Lynyrd Skynyrd's Billy Powell fooled Sioux Falls radio station KRRO into letting him sing in their studios? ... that Chinese archaeologist Duan Qingbo found that the Mausoleum of the First Qin Emperor bore similarities to the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus built a century earlier? ... that women vendors at Victorian charity bazaars were criticized for using the events to flirt with men? ... that 19th-century bridge builder Zenas King built thousands of bridges across the continental United States, some of which are still standing? ... that the green spruce aphid often continues breeding throughout the winter, but the nymphs become dormant in the summer? ... that Isabelle Kabatu, a Belgian soprano of African origin, recorded the role of Dolly in Ermanno Wolf-Ferrari's opera Sly alongside José Carreras in the title role? ... that the 2018 teen drama Skate Kitchen was partly filmed with a camera mounted on a motorized skateboard deck traveling at speeds of up to 20 miles per hour (32 km/h)? 27 November 2019 00:00, 27 November 2019 (UTC) Painting of lotus flowers and birds by Li Yin ... that Li Yin's paintings (example shown) were so sought after that as many as forty imitators in her area turned out fakes of her work? ... that British submarine HMS Sceptre towed an X-class midget submarine tasked with attacking German battleships off Norway? ... that Carolyn F. Ulrich, who began her career with no formal library training, eventually became the chief of the periodicals division at the New York Public Library? ... that England's 2019 Tree of the Year, the Allerton Oak, was reportedly damaged in an 1864 gunpowder explosion? ... that Aaron Hawkins uses nail polish to guide laser light into optofluidic devices to detect antibiotic resistance? ... that the southern black korhaan, native to South Africa, is becoming rarer due to loss of its natural habitat to agriculture? ... that Reuben Hill is considered the "founding father" of the sociology of the family discipline? ... that after recording material later compiled into the album Breaking It Up!, Louis Prima left Columbia Records in a disagreement over "Come On-a My House"? 26 November 2019 00:00, 26 November 2019 (UTC) Front view of Rye station ... that both Rye railway station (pictured) and its signal box are Grade II listed? ... that Cameron Chesterfield Alleyne was the first resident bishop in Africa for the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church? ... that Vasily Kalinnikov composed his Symphony No. 1 while suffering from tuberculosis? ... that Aneurin Bevan led the establishment of the National Health Service, which was inspired by the Tredegar Medical Aid Society in his hometown? ... that in Nova Scotia, the tricolored bat roosts exclusively in the dangling fronds of bony beard lichen? ... that Adaora Adimora, an American professor who studies sexually transmitted infections among minorities, was named one of the top 100 African American leaders by The Root in 2009? ... that WXGM AM dropped its coverage of William & Mary Tribe athletics in favor of the smaller Christopher Newport University, since CNU offered to pay for the rights? ... that Pan Wen-Yuan is known as the "father" of the integrated circuit industry in Taiwan despite having never studied, worked for pay, or settled there? 25 November 2019 00:00, 25 November 2019 (UTC) Flag flown by the NAACP ... that between 1920 and 1938, the NAACP flew a flag (pictured) at its New York headquarters to mark each lynching that occurred in the United States? ... that as a 10-year-old, Lin Mei-hong joined a dance troupe in Taiwan founded by the Italian priest Gian Carlo Michelini, and later choreographed for the troupe? ... that the tree Drypetes gerrardii was named after William Gerrard, who collected plants in southern Africa in the 1860s? ... that CNN political correspondent MJ Lee became an American citizen during the 2016 United States presidential election campaign, which she reported on? ... that the first Paleolithic sculpture of a woman found in modern times was excavated at Laugerie-Basse, one of the Prehistoric Sites and Decorated Caves of the Vézère Valley? ... that in 2019, Ivorian footballer Amad Traoré became the first player born in 2002 to score in the Serie A? ... that the 1934 choral composition Totentanz (Danse Macabre) by Hugo Distler combines motets with spoken dialogue between Death and its victims? ... that English diabetes specialist Harry Keen conducted a scientific study in which every adult in the town of Bedford was asked to provide a urine sample for testing? 24 November 2019 00:00, 24 November 2019 (UTC) Dulan village elders performing at the 2016 Amis Music Festival ... that Taiwan's Amis Music Festival (performers pictured) does not publish its schedule in advance, preferring to focus attention on the overall theme of aboriginal heritage rather than individual performers? ... that American contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2019/November responseCode 3 200 