jagikoaglqlcrcearimczitoaqmazeoadmwqrsba length 6 753379 page 10010 This page is an archive and its contents should be preserved in their current form; any comments regarding this page should be directed to Template talk:In the news. Thanks. Archived discussion for February 2007 from Wikipedia:In the news section on the Main Page/Candidates. February 28 Dick Cheney is unharmed after a bombing hits Bagram Air Base near Kabul, Afghanistan. --TheFEARgod (Ч) 23:22, 27 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] Was the bombing actually directed at Vice President Cheney, or was it it just an incredible coincidence that the bombing occured while he was there? Because if it was directed at him, i definitely think an assasination attempt of someone like the US Vice President would merit ITN attention. Thethinredline 00:30, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] The BBC have reported: "The Taleban said they carried out the attack and that the attacker was trying to get to Mr Cheney, who was on an unannounced visit to the region." [1] CNN has reported: "The Taliban claimed responsibility and said Cheney was the target. Cheney was unhurt in the attack. ... The vice president had spent the night at the sprawling Bagram Air Base. He ate breakfast with the troops, and met with Maj. Gen. David Rodriguez, the commander of U.S. troops in Afghanistan. He was preparing to leave for the meeting with Karzai when the suicide bomber struck about 10 a.m. (12:30 a.m. ET), sending up a plume of smoke visible to reporters accompanying him." [2] And according to Al Jazeera: "Cheney, who was on a unannounced visit to the region, was staying in a room at the base where he had to stay the night after bad weather forced postponement of his trip to Kabul. "At 10 a.m. I heard a loud boom," Cheney told reporters. "They moved me for a relatively brief period of time to one of the bomb shelters nearby," he said. "As the situation settled down and they got a better sense in terms of what was going on, I went back to my room until it was time to leave." The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, saying that the bomber was targeting the American Vice-President. "We wanted to target ... Cheney," Taliban spokesman Mullah Hayat Khan told Reuters by phone from an undisclosed location." [3] It might be bluff or propaganda conceived after they found out that Dick Cheney was at the scene. But if they are correct, it would mean a high-level leak/spy in Afghanistan or the US. AecisBrievenbus 00:40, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] No idea how to spin it into a suitable sentence but surely the Shanghai Stock Market drop & its effects needs reporting here. -- PageantUpdater • talk | contribs | esperanza 00:50, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] I agree with putting this up if the plummet continues tomorrow. Afaik the stock markets in Asia are about to open, and Europe will open in about 8 hours time. The problem is that there's not an updated article yet. As far as the wording is concerned, I suggest: "Stock markets around the world plummet after rumours about illegal share trading and fears of accelerating inflation in China." Or shorter: "A slide on the Shanghai Stock Exchange sends stock markets around the world plummeting." In both cases the word plummet(ing) would contain the link to the updated article. AecisBrievenbus 01:06, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] Wikipedia is not a newspaper. Even though I understand this to be the biggest drop on Wall Street since Sep 2001 - Until some appropriate source we can cite, records any notable effect on the global economy, and that information is added to a article that is more than a simple "it happened" stub; *breaths* we can't add it to ITN. --Monotonehell 11:16, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] I agree that Wikipedia is not a newspaper, but Wikipedia would be a very good place to link all the stock market slumps around the world together, provide context, etcetera, all in one article. The slump seems to be continuing today, with the FTSE 100 losing 52 billion pounds off its total value in two days. AecisBrievenbus 12:41, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] I agree that this global market sell-off should be listed. Also, it is just as worthy to be listed on the front page as a major weather storm (which we have had many on the front page in the last 6 months) 69.119.239.138 13:12, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] looks like 3 in favor, 1 against (ahh, gotta love consensus) — Preceding unsigned comment added by 69.119.239.138 (talk • contribs) Perhaps, but please be reminded that this is not a vote, but a discussion, and that Wikipedia is not a democracy. Most important problem at the moment is the lack of an updated article about this event. As long as that is missing, the event cannot be added. AecisBrievenbus 13:19, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] I'm suggesting this as an update to Romano Prodi's status (as long as it's still up): Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi and his goverment survive a vote of no confidence in the Italian Parliament. Lockesdonkey 00:44, 1 March 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] I thought the lower house of the Italian Parliament won't be voting on this till Friday. I'd wait. --PFHLai 01:28, 1 March 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] OK, then: Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi and his goverment survive a vote of no confidence in the Italian Senate. It was the Senate that caused the problem, anyway. Lockesdonkey 02:36, 1 March 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] February 27 The International Criminal Court has named former Sudanese minister Ahmed Haroun and Janjaweed militia leader Ali Kushayb as suspects into investigations of crimes against humanity and war crimes relating to the Darfur conflict -- It is wordy, i realize, but it is a significant development as these are the first two persons named in the investigation of this horrible tragedy. Thethinredline 21:11, 27 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] Again, Wikipedia is not a newspaper. This is an initiation of proceedings. The article has no real background information on the subject, the Ahmed Haroun article is a stub and the court hasn't made any ruling as yet. Reporting this development is the job of a newspaper not an encyclopedia. --Monotonehell 11:20, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] While you do make a good point about the newspaper-encyclopedia comparison, the Darfur conclict is quite signficant from an encyclopaedic standpoint, and this has to be considered a serious development. And i personally feel your comments fall kind of flat when when we have have a report of Martin Scorsese winning his first Academy Award and a flood in Mozambique that, while tragic is nowhere near as significant a humanitarian crisis as the situation in Darfur. Thethinredline 13:52, 28 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] Seems a little too early when the accused are still suspects. The investigations might clear them of any wrongdoing. I'd wait till the ICC is ready to arrest/indict the accused. --PFHLai 01:34, 1 March 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] February 26 The Bosnian genocide case at the International Court of Justice ended in favor of the countries of Serbia and Montenegro as being innocent and no connection to the Bosnian Genocide and that thus, they should pay no war damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The ICJ also ruled that the prosecution failed to prove that there was genocide on a broader scale to exterminate the Bosnian Muslims, but that Serbia is not doing enough to prosecute the war criminals from the Bosnian war charged by the ICTY. --PaxEquilibrium 13:39, 26 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] Support, but a shorter version. --TheFEARgod (Ч) 14:06, 26 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] From what I've gathered, the verdict is a little different from what you say. The court has ruled that the events in Srebrenica constitute genocide, that the involvement of the Republic of Yugoslavia in this genocide cannot be proven (i.e. found not guilty instead of found innocent), that the Republic of Yugoslavia had not done enough to prevent the massacre and that the Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro and Serbia had not done enough to bring the perpetrators to justice. Through these actions, Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro and Serbia are found to have violated the Genocide Convention. The court also decided that it could not rule on the claim for damages. AecisBrievenbus 14:11, 26 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] Yes that is correct. You can freely rephrase yourself. However, I did not know that the court decided it could not rule that. As far as I understood, it ruled that it shouldn't pay. --PaxEquilibrium 14:40, 26 February 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] For the record, the official wording of the verdict related to the issue of innocent v not guilty is: "The Court finds that in the light of the information available to it, it has not been established that the massacres at Srebrenica were committed by persons or entities ranking as organs of the Respondent. It finds also that it has not been established that those massacres were committed on the instructions, or under the direction of organs of the Respondent State, nor that the Respondent exercised effective control over the operations in the course of which those massacres, which constituted the crime of genocide, were perpetrated." Regarding the reparations, the court decided: "However, the Court clearly cannot conclude from the case as a whole and with a sufficient degree of certainty that the genocide at Srebrenica would in fact have been averted if the Respondent had acted in compliance with its legal obligations. Since the Court cannot regard as proven a causal nexus between the Respondent’s violation of its obligation of prevention and the genocide at Srebrenica, financial compensation is not the appropriate form of reparation for the breach of the obligation to prevent genocide." The way I interpret this (correct me if I'm wrong), the evidence presented to the ICJ is not sufficient to warrant reparations, since a "causal nexus" cannot be regarded as proven. In other words, the court has decided that it  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 80 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:In_the_news/Candidates/February_2007 responseCode 3 200 