jccaiomkccjicqxcngsqomhglmikdecasopswgsg length 6 156240 page 10043 Canadian singer This article reads like a press release or a news article and may be largely based on routine coverage. Please help improve this article and add independent sources. (February 2020) Jonita Gandhi Gandhi in 2019 Background information Born (1989-10-23) October 23, 1989 (age 34) New Delhi, India Origin Brampton, Ontario, Canada Genres Classical Western pop jazz playback Occupation(s) Singer Playback singer Instrument(s) Vocals keyboard Years active 2011–present Website jonitagandhi.com YouTube information Channel jonitamusic Years active 2010–present Subscribers 1.11 Million[1] Total views 178.90 Million[1] Last updated: 12 July 2023[2] Musical artist Jonita Gandhi (born October 23, 1989) is a Canadian playback singer of Indian descent.[3][4] She has recorded songs predominantly in Hindi and Tamil languages with few in Punjabi, Telugu, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, Kannada and Malayalam languages. Some of her most acclaimed songs include The Breakup Song, Mental Manadhil, Chellama and Arabic Kuthu. She is also well known for her YouTube presence. Her singing debut started through Chennai Express in 2013.[5][6][7] Personal life[edit] Gandhi was born in a Punjabi family from Delhi.[8] Her family emigrated to Brampton, Canada when she was nine months old, where she was raised.[9][10] Her family later settled in Mississauga.[11] Gandhi studied in Turner Fenton Secondary School and attended the Ivey Business School of the University of Western Ontario where she completed her degrees in health science and business in 2012.[12] She has had formal training in Western and Hindustani classical singing.[13][9] Career[edit] Gandhi performs at Aurora, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management, Gwalior Gandhi grew up around music as both her father and brother were part time musicians. They would often perform cover songs together at live community events. At age 16, she auditioned for Canadian Idol but didn't get past the audition rounds. She began making YouTube covers from her bedroom, sometimes featuring other local musicians including Akash Gandhi.[14] The videos quickly went viral and led to a myriad of opportunities to perform. Her hits on YouTube began with covers of well-known Hindi-film songs, such as, Pani Da Rang, Tujhko Jo Paaya, Tum Hi Ho, Suhaani Raat, Yeh Honsla and many others. Her beginning concerts typically consisted of these covers.[13] Her jump to playback singing began with an opportunity to perform alongside Sonu Nigam. This tour crossed various countries including Russia, UK, US and the Caribbean. Afterwards, her sights were set on starting a career in the Bollywood music industry. Gandhi started playback singing with Chennai Express. The music for this film was composed by Vishal–Shekhar. She further worked in other Bollywood movies like Highway, singing both Kahaan Hoon Main and Implosive Silence.[15] Gandhi worked as a playback singer with music directors including A. R. Rahman and Pritam. Rahman featured Gandhi in the concert film One Heart (film). Gandhi performed at the 2016 Jubilee Games in Dubai with Salim–Sulaiman and with Amit Trivedi on MTV Unplugged.[16] In 2020, Jonita Gandhi was involved in mentoring and judging the Indian kids singing reality show Taare Zameen Par on StarPlus[17] As of 2021, Gandhi is set to make her film debut with director Vignesh Shivan's Tamil film Walking/Talking Strawberry Icecream, starring Krishnakumar Balasubramanian.[18] As a part of IPL 2023 Closing ceremony, Jonita gave her musical performance alongside with DIVINE at Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad.[19] Discography[edit] List of songs recorded by Gandhi. The list includes tracks recorded for film and non-film albums. Year Song title Film/Soundtrack/Album Language Composer Notes 2013 "Chennai Express" Chennai Express Hindi Vishal–Shekhar "Pinjra" MTV Coke Studio India (Season 3) Clinton Cerejo "E Mon Aajkal" Majnu Bengali Rishi Chanda 2014 "Eai Ki Prem" Bangali Babu English Mem "Implosive Silence" Highway Hindi A. R. Rahman "Kahaan Hoon Main" "Aa Bhi Jaa" Raunaq "Geet Gaaon" "Dil Chaspiya" Kochadaiiyaan "Maaloom" Lekar Hum Deewana Dil "Tasalli" Bonus Track "Simply Sufi" Single Salim–Sulaiman Simply Sufi TVC ad "Rimco" Gang of Ghosts Dharam Sandeep 2015 "Nuvve Nuvve" Kick 2 Telugu S. Thaman "Can't Forget You (Tujhe Bula Diya)" Single Hindi, English Arjun Music Video "Ye Kadhaa" Kerintha Telugu Mickey J. Meyer "Mental Manadhil" O Kadhal Kanmani Tamil A. R. Rahman "Mental Madhilo" OK Bangaram Telugu "Premika" Dilwale Hindi Pritam "Woh Tho Yahin Hai Lekin" Main Aur Charles Vipin Patwa 2016 "First Date" First Date: Musical Short Film[20] Vinay Jaiswal "Deewaren: Unity Song for Holi" "Blessings from the Sky" Pelé: Birth of a Legend English A. R. Rahman "Deivam Raasina Kavitha" 24 (Telugu version) Telugu "Manasuke" "Mei Nigara" 24 (Tamil version) Tamil "Idhu Naal" Achcham Yenbadhu Madamaiyada "Sau Tarah Ke" Dishoom Hindi Pritam "Tu Hai" Single Salim–Sulaiman Jammin' "Yaara" Single A. R. Rahman "Meetha Zeher" Playing Priya: Short Film Joi Barua "Away & Beyond" Single English Arjuna Harjai Maruti Ciaz "Satellite" Dance Under the Influence Sanjoy Music Album "Pink Anthem" Pink Hindi Anupam Roy "The Breakup Song" Ae Dil Hai Mushkil Pritam Nominated, Most Entertaining Singer (Female) at Big ZEE Entertainment Awards Nominated, Zee Cine Award for Best Playback Singer – Female Nominated, Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer Nominated, Best Playback – Female at Stardust Awards "Neenene Hosa Kanasu" Niruttara Kannada Niladri Kumar "Aalangisu Baa Nannanu" 2017 "Kannadi Poovukku" Enakku Vaaitha Adimaigal Tamil Santhosh Dayanidhi "Gilehriyaan" Dangal Hindi Pritam Chakraborty Winner, Critics' Choice Female Vocalist of The Year at Mirchi Music Awards "Tere Bina" Shorgul Niladri Kumar "Saajan Aayo Re" Ok Jaanu A. R. Rahman "Hamsaro" Cheliyaa Telugu "Azhagiye" Kaatru Veliyidai Tamil "Takdi Ravan" Jindua Punjabi Arjuna Harjai "One More Thumka" Mahi NRI "Ye Jawaani Teri" Meri Pyaari Bindu Hindi Sachin–Jigar "Udd Chal" Single Srihari Jagannathan Chennai Street Band "Zikr (Celebrating Eid)" Single Salim–Sulaiman "Bhalobeshe Felechi" Ami Je Ke Tomar Bengali Indradeep Dasgupta "Raat Abhi Baaki Hai" Single Hindi Shayadshah Shahebdin Times Music "Kehne Ko" Dear Maya Anupam Roy "Yaara Meherbaan" Boss 2: Back to Rule Bengali Jeet Gannguli "Ela Thelchaali" Kaadhali Telugu Prasan Praveen Shyam "Affoo Khudaya" FU: Friendship Unlimited Marathi Samir Saptiskar "Raakh Baakhi" Mom Hindi A. R. Rahman "Lafz Unkahe" Lafz Unkahe Ajay Singha Music Album "Ae Dil" Punjab Nahi Jaungi Shiraz Uppal "Chandralekha" A Gentleman Sachin–Jigar "Ashi Kashi" Dry Day Marathi Ashwin Srinivasan "Yaadon Mein" Jab Harry Met Sejal Hindi Pritam "Lagdi Hai Thaai" Simran Sachin–Jigar "Will you marry me" Bhoomi Sachin–Jigar "Bagiya Mein" Rangreza Qurram Hussain Nominated, Best Singer (Female) at Lux Style Awards "Iraiva" Velaikkaran Tamil Anirudh Ravichander 2018 "Andekha, Ansuna, Anchua" Single Hindi Vishal Bhardwaj Zee Brand Anthem "I Love You, Re Mari Savaar" Love Ni Bhavai Gujarati Sachin–Jigar "Yevevo" Hello Telugu Anup Rubens Co-singer: Akhil Akkineni "Bhinjaaun" Mijaaj Gujarati Meghdhanush "Sayaani" Padman Hindi Amit Trivedi "Aayat Bane Hum" Single Mickey J. Meyer T-Series Pop Chartbusters "Azhagae" Irumbu Thirai Tamil Yuvan Shankar Raja "Castles" Future Perfect English Anish Sood Music Album "Lamhein Beetey Hue" Single Hindi Anurag Godbole "Kaadhal" Single Tamil A.H.Kaashif "Bas Tu Hai" 3 Storeys Hindi Clinton Cerejo "Haq Hai" Budh: Short Film Shreyas Puranik Times Music "Raahat" Single Ashish-Vijay T-Series Pop Chartbusters "Nokho Anokho" Oxygen Gujarati Parth Bharat Thakkar "Dil Beparwah" Phamous Hindi Sundeep Gosswami and Surya Vishwakarma "Padharo Mawla" Single Salim–Sulaiman "Nasha Tera" When Obama Loved Osama Rishabh Sambhav Jain "Jeeya Mar Ke (Tum Mile Dil Khile)" Single Parichay Saregama Music "Lag Ja Gale" Saheb, Biwi Aur Gangster 3 Rana Mazumder "Orey Oru" Kolamavu Kokila Tamil Anirudh Ravichander "Kanne Kanne" Single Leon James 7UP Madras Gig "Allah Duhai Hai" Race 3 Hindi JAM8 "Aahista" Laila Majnu Niladri Kumar "Sacchi Mohabbat" Manmarziyaan Amit Trivedi "Ninne Vidavanule" Anaganaga O Premakatha Telugu KC Anjan "OMG Ponnu" Sarkar (Tamil version) Tamil "OMG Pilla" Sarkar (Telugu version) Telugu A. R. Rahman "Taajub Hai" Single Hindi Gulraj Singh OnePlus Playback "Chogada (Unplugged)" Loveyatri Lijo George -Dj Chetas "Sar Utha Ke Jiyo" Single Arjun Kanungo HDFC Life "Love'Otsavam" Next Enti? Telugu Ramajogayya Sastry "Jheeni Jheeni" Single Hindi Salim–Sulaiman Music Album "Rekkai Thulirtha" Kaatrin Mozhi Tamil A.H. Kaashif "Nis Din Nis Din" Single Hindi A. R. Rahman Jammin' "Eh le Himmat" Single Ranjit Barot "Anthe Kadha Mari" Lover Telugu Ankit Tiwari 2019 "Main To Jee Rahi" End Counter Hindi Rahul Jain "Jhumka Bareli Wala" SP Chauhan Vibhas "Sadke Jawaan (Reprise)" "Speaker Phat Jaaye" Total Dhamaal Gourov-Roshin "Rajvaadi Odhni" Kalank Pritam "Ganga: The River of People" Single Prakash Apollo Tyres "Haaye Oye (Acoustic)" Single QARAN "Engleesu Lovesu" Pakkiri (Tamil version) Tamil Amit Trivedi "Angrezi Luv Shuv" The Extraordinary Journey of the Fakir Hindi "Jilebara" Thumbaa Tamil Vivek–Mervin "Kaattalakal" Pathinettam Padi Malayalam A.H. Kaashif "Hey Amigo" Kaappaan Tamil Harris Jayaraj Bandobast Telugu "Nach Baliye" Single Hindi Lijo George -Dj Chetas Nach Baliye season nine theme song "Dil Ka Telephone" Dream Girl Meet Bros "Sandakari Neethan" Sanga Thamizhan Tamil Vivek–Mervin "Humraahi" Single Hindi Arjuna Harjai OnePlus Playback "Priyasakhi" Single Tamil "Tere Bina" (Acoustic) Single Hindi Zaeden "Bachpan Ki Dhun" Single Ankur Tewari CRY – Child Rights and You "Pink Gulaabi Sky" The Sky Is Pink Pritam "The Naari Naari Song" Made In China Sachin–Jigar "Nee Sirichalum" Action Tamil Hiphop Tamizha "Ab Aaja" Flip Hindi Gajendra Verma Music Album 2020 "Sun Sajna" Bhangra Paa Le Rishi Rich, contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Jonita_Gandhi responseCode 3 200 