jcliigcmuadoliimqakquitcacoeoqukgckqjeio length 5 98978 page 7708 Court in Myanmar This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Constitutional Tribunal of Myanmar" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2013) (template removal help) Constitutional Tribunal of the Union နိုင်ငံတော်ဖွဲ့စည်းပုံအခြေခံဥပဒေဆိုင်ရာခုံရုံး Established 31 March 2011; 12 years ago (2011-03-31) Jurisdiction Myanmar Location Office No. 54, Ottarathiri Township, Naypyidaw Composition method Mixed executive/legislative selection Authorized by Constitution of Myanmar Judge term length 5 years Number of positions 9 Type of tribunal Constitutional court Website www.constitutionaltribunal.gov.mm Chair Currently Than Kyaw Since 8 February 2021 The Constitutional Tribunal of the Union (Burmese: နိုင်ငံတော်ဖွဲ့စည်းပုံအခြေခံဥပဒေဆိုင်ရာခုံရုံး) is the constitutional court of Myanmar under the 2008 Constitution. There is one chairperson and eight members on the Tribunal, who serve five year terms. Members of the tribunal are constitutionally elected proportionally by the President, Pyithu Hluttaw, and Amyotha Hluttaw. However, under the current military government, members are appointed unilaterally by the junta, the State Administration Council. The members of the Constitutional Tribunal are all required to be legal experts. Its headquarters is located in Office No. 54, Ottarathiri Township, Nay Pyi Taw City, Myanmar. Background[edit] In the 1947 Constitution, the Supreme Court decided upon constitutional disputes and interpreted the constitution (subject to article 151). In the 1974 Constitution, only the Pyithu Hluttaw (House of Representatives) had the power of interpretation (according to article 200 and 201). The National Convention was held on 16 September 1993. It agreed on 104 basic principles to be included in the formation of new constitution. All representatives in this Convention agreed to the following basic principles concerning with the establishment of a Constitutional Tribunal - “A Constitutional Tribunal shall be set up to interpret the provisions of the Constitution, to scrutinize whether or not laws enacted by the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw, the Regional Hluttaws, the State Hluttaws and functions of executive authorities of Pyidaungsu, Regions, States and Self-Administered Areas are in conformity with the Constitution. Its function is to decide on disputes relating to the Constitution between Pyidaungsu and Regions, between Pyidaungsu and States, among Regions, among States, and between Regions or States and Self-Administered Areas and among Self-Administered Areas themselves. Its role is to perform other duties prescribed in the Constitution,” as well. In formulation the 2008 Constitution, the Commission drafted the following provisions regarding the Constitutional Tribunal - the establishment of a Constitutional Tribunal “Chapter(1), Basic Principles of the Union” (article 46); the formation of a Tribunal, tenure, duties and functions, effect of decisions, submitting submissions, impeachment, “Chapter (6), Judicial” (from article 320 to 326); Hence the 2008 Constitution was enforced in the first meeting of the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw (Union Parliament) which was held on 31 January 2011 and the first Constitutional Tribunal was established on 30, March 2011. In the aftermath of the 2021 Myanmar coup d'état, on 8 February, the State Administration Council seized control of the tribunal by successfully pressuring all sitting judges to resign and appointing nine new members, including Than Kyaw as chair.[1][2] The tribunal has since ruled that indefinite military rule complies with the constitution.[3] Chairperson and Members (Justices)[edit] All members were appointed by the State Administration Council on 14-3-2022 U Tha Htay (Chair) Nyan Tun Khin Maung Oo Saw Sanlin Myo Chit Kyaw San Kyaw Min Marlar Aung Daw Nan Sandar San List of chairpersons[edit] Thein Soe (30 March 2011 to 6 September 2012) Mya Thein (26 February 2013 to 29 March 2016) Myo Nyunt (30 March 2016 to 8 February 2021) Than Kyaw (since 8 February 2021)[1] References[edit] ^ a b "နိုင်ငံတော်ဖွဲ့စည်းပုံအခြေခံဥပဒေဆိုင်ရာ ခုံရုံးဥက္ကဋ္ဌနှင့်အဖွဲ့ဝင်များ ခန့်အပ်တာဝန်ပေးခြင်း". Ministry Of Information. Retrieved 11 February 2021. ^ Noel, Thibaut (March 2022). "Unconstitutionality of the 2021 Coup in Myanmar" (PDF). International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance. Archived (PDF) from the original on 15 March 2023. Retrieved 6 August 2023. ^ "Myanmar Junta Extends Military Rule by Six Months". The Irrawaddy. 1 February 2023. Retrieved 6 August 2023. External links[edit] Official website v t e Government of Myanmar Constitution of Myanmar Gazette of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Executive In government President list President's Office Vice President State Counsellor Cabinet State Administration Council Chairman Naypyidaw Council Chief Ministers In exile National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma National Unity Government Legislative In government Assembly of the Union Speaker House of Nationalities Speaker House of Representatives Speaker State and Region Hluttaws In exile Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw Judiciary Constitutional Tribunal Supreme Court Revenue Appellate Tribunal Ministries Existing Agriculture, Livestock, and Irrigation Border Affairs Commerce Construction Cooperatives and Rural Development Defence Education Electricity and Energy Ethnic Affairs Foreign Affairs Health Home Affairs Hotels and Tourism Immigration and Population Industry Information International Cooperation Investment and Foreign Economic Relations Labour Legal Affairs Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation Planning and Finance Religious Affairs and Culture Science and Technology Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement Sports and Youth Affairs Transport and Communications Union Government Office (1), Union Government Office (2) Defunct Agriculture and Irrigation Communications and Information Technology Cooperatives Electric Power Energy Environmental Conservation and Forestry Health and Sports Labour, Employment and Social Security Labour, Immigration and Population Livestock, Fisheries and Rural Development Mines National Planning and Economic Development Planning and Finance Rail Transportation State Counsellor Office Transport Constitutional bodies Offices Auditor General Attorney General Meeting bodies National Defence and Security Council Financial Commission Union Civil Service Board Commissions Union Election Commission Anti-Corruption Commission National Human Rights Commission Myanmar Investment Commission Securities and Exchange Commission Law enforcement Myanmar Police Force State-owned entities Central Bank Myanma Economic Bank Myanma Foreign Trade Bank Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank Myanma Agricultural Development Bank Myanmar portal WikiProject Commons Category v t e Judiciaries of Myanmar Government of Myanmar National courts Supreme Court of Myanmar Constitutional Tribunal of Myanmar State high courts Chin State Kachin State Kayah State Kayin State Mon State Rakhine State Shan State Region high courts Ayeyarwady Region Bago Region Magway Region Mandalay Region Sagaing Region Taninthayi Region Yangon Region contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 68 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Constitutional_Tribunal_of_Myanmar responseCode 3 200 