jczkraueaezgpmpmasgslgwgnctadasklkmefqpq length 6 657926 page 10050 U.S. state This article is about the U.S. state. For other uses, see New Hampshire (disambiguation). State in the United States New Hampshire State State of New Hampshire Flag Seal Nickname(s): Granite State White Mountain State[1] Motto: "Live Free or Die" Anthem: "Old New Hampshire"[2] Map of the United States with New Hampshire highlighted Country United States Before statehood Province of New Hampshire Admitted to the Union June 21, 1788 (9th) Capital Concord Largest city Manchester Largest county or equivalent Hillsborough Largest metro and urban areas Greater Boston (combined and metro) Nashua (urban) Government • Governor Chris Sununu (R) • Senate President Jeb Bradley (R)[note 1] Legislature General Court • Upper house Senate • Lower house House of Representatives Judiciary New Hampshire Supreme Court U.S. senators Jeanne Shaheen (D) Maggie Hassan (D) U.S. House delegation 1: Chris Pappas (D) 2: Ann McLane Kuster (D) (list) Area • Total 9,349 sq mi (24,214[3] km2) • Rank 46th Dimensions • Length 190 mi (305 km) • Width 68 mi (110 km) Elevation 1,000 ft (300 m) Highest elevation (Mount Washington[4][5][note 2][note 3]) 6,288 ft (1,916.66 m) Lowest elevation (Atlantic Ocean[5]) 0 ft (0 m) Population (2022) • Total 1,395,231 • Rank 41st • Density 150/sq mi (58/km2) • Rank 21st • Median household income $73,381[6] • Income rank 8th Demonym(s) Granite Stater New Hampshirite Language • Official language English[7] (French allowed for official business with Quebec; other languages allowed for certain specific uses)[8] Time zone UTC−05:00 (Eastern) • Summer (DST) UTC−04:00 (EDT) USPS abbreviation NH ISO 3166 code US-NH Traditional abbreviation N.H. Latitude 42° 42′ N to 45° 18′ N Longitude 70° 36′ W to 72° 33′ W Website www.nh.gov State symbols of New Hampshire List of state symbols Flag of New Hampshire Seal of New Hampshire Emblem of New Hampshire Living insignia Amphibian Red-spotted newt Notophthalmus viridescens Bird Purple finch Haemorhous purpureus Butterfly Karner Blue Lycaeides melissa samuelis Dog breed Chinook Fish Freshwater: Brook trout Salvelinus fontinalis Saltwater: Striped bass Morone saxatilis Flower Purple lilac Syringa vulgaris Insect Ladybug Coccinellidae Mammal White-tailed deer Odocoileus virginianus Tree White birch Betula papyrifera Inanimate insignia Food Fruit: Pumpkin Vegetable: White Potato Berry: Blackberry[9] Gemstone Smoky quartz Mineral Beryl Rock Granite Sport Skiing Tartan New Hampshire state tartan State route marker State quarter Released in 2000 Lists of United States state symbols New Hampshire is a state in the New England region of the Northeastern United States. It is bordered by Massachusetts to the south, Vermont to the west, Maine and the Gulf of Maine to the east, and the Canadian province of Quebec to the north. Of the 50 U.S. states, New Hampshire is the fifth smallest by area and the tenth least populous, with a population of 1,377,529 residents as of the 2020 census. Concord is the state capital, while Manchester is the most populous city. New Hampshire's motto, "Live Free or Die", reflects its role in the American Revolutionary War; its nickname, "The Granite State", refers to its extensive granite formations and quarries.[10] It is well known nationwide for holding the first primary (after the Iowa caucus) in the U.S. presidential election cycle, and for its resulting influence on American electoral politics.[11] New Hampshire was inhabited for thousands of years by Algonquian-speaking peoples such as the Abenaki. Europeans arrived in the early 17th century, with the English establishing some of the earliest non-indigenous settlements. The Province of New Hampshire was established in 1629, named after the English county of Hampshire.[12] Following mounting tensions between the British colonies and the crown during the 1760s, New Hampshire saw one of the earliest overt acts of rebellion, with the seizing of Fort William and Mary from the British in 1774. In January 1776, it became the first of the British North American colonies to establish an independent government and state constitution; six months later, it signed the United States Declaration of Independence and contributed troops, ships, and supplies in the war against Britain. In June 1788, it was the ninth state to ratify the U.S. Constitution, bringing that document into effect. Through the mid-19th century, New Hampshire was an active center of abolitionism, and fielded close to 32,000 Union soldiers during the U.S. Civil War. After the war, the state saw rapid industrialization and population growth, becoming a center of textile manufacturing, shoemaking, and papermaking; the Amoskeag Manufacturing Company in Manchester was at one time the largest cotton textile plant in the world. The Merrimack and Connecticut rivers were lined with industrial mills, most of which employed workers from Canada and Europe; French Canadians formed the most significant influx of immigrants, and today roughly a quarter of all New Hampshire residents have French American ancestry, second only to Maine. Reflecting a nationwide trend, New Hampshire's industrial sector declined after World War II. Since 1950, its economy diversified to include financial and professional services, real estate, education, transportation and high-tech, with manufacturing still higher than the national average.[13] Beginning in the 1950s, its population surged as major highways connected it to Greater Boston and led to more commuter towns. New Hampshire is among the wealthiest and most-educated states in the U.S.[14] It is one of nine states without an income tax and has no taxes on sales, capital gains, or inheritance while relying heavily on local property taxes to fund education; consequently, its state tax burden is among the lowest in the country. It ranks among the top ten states in metrics such as governance, healthcare, socioeconomic opportunity, and fiscal stability.[15][16] New Hampshire is one of the least religious states and known for its libertarian-leaning political culture; it is a swing state in presidential elections.[17] With its mountainous and heavily forested terrain, New Hampshire has a growing tourism sector centered on outdoor recreation. It has some of the highest ski mountains on the East Coast and is a major destination for winter sports; Mount Monadnock is among the most climbed mountains in the U.S. Other activities include observing the fall foliage, summer cottages along many lakes and the seacoast, motorsports at the New Hampshire Motor Speedway, and Motorcycle Week, a popular motorcycle rally held in Weirs Beach in Laconia. The White Mountain National Forest includes most of the Appalachian Trail between Vermont and Maine, and has the Mount Washington Auto Road, where visitors may drive to the top of 6,288-foot (1,917 m) Mount Washington. History[edit] Main article: History of New Hampshire The historical coat of arms of New Hampshire, from 1876 Various Algonquian-speaking Abenaki tribes, largely divided between the Androscoggin, Cowasuck and Pennacook nations, inhabited the area before European settlement.[18] Despite the similar language, they had a very different culture and religion from other Algonquian peoples. Indigenous people lived near Keene, New Hampshire 12,000 years ago, according to 2009 archaeological digs,[19] and the Abenaki were present in New Hampshire in pre-colonial times.[20] English and French explorers visited New Hampshire in 1600–1605, and David Thompson settled at Odiorne's Point in present-day Rye in 1623. The first permanent European settlement was at Hilton's Point (present-day Dover). By 1631, the Upper Plantation comprised modern-day Dover, Durham and Stratham; in 1679, it became the "Royal Province". Father Rale's War was fought between the colonists and the Wabanaki Confederacy throughout New Hampshire. New Hampshire was one of the Thirteen Colonies that rebelled against British rule during the American Revolution. During the American Revolution, New Hampshire was economically divided. The Seacoast region revolved around sawmills, shipyards, merchants' warehouses, and established village and town centers, where wealthy merchants built substantial homes, furnished them with luxuries, and invested their capital in trade and land speculation. At the other end of the social scale, there developed a permanent class of day laborers, mariners, indentured servants and slaves. Site of first house in New Hampshire, present mansion constructed in 1750, by Gov. W. B. Wentworth, New York Public Library In December 1774, Paul Revere warned Patriots that Fort William and Mary would be reinforced with British troops. The following day, John Sullivan raided the British Fort William and Mary for weapons. During the raid, the British soldiers fired at rebels with cannon and muskets, but there were apparently no casualties. These were among the first shots in the American Revolutionary period, occurring approximately five months before the Battles of Lexington and Concord. On January 5, 1776, New Hampshire became the first colony to declare independence from Great Britain, almost six months before the Declaration of Independence was signed by the Continental Congress.[21] The United States Constitution was ratified by New Hampshire on June 21, 1788, when New Hampshire became the ninth state to do so.[22] New Hampshire was a Jacksonian stronghold; the state sent Franklin Pierce to the White House in the election of 1852. Industrialization took the form of numerous textile mills, which in turn attracted large flows of immigrants from Quebec (the "French Canadians") and Ireland. The northern parts of the state produced lumber, and the mountains provided tourist attractions. After 1960, the textile industry collapsed, but the economy rebounded as a center of high technology and as a service provider. Starting in 1952, New Hampshire gained national and international attention for its presidential prim contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/New_Hampshire responseCode 3 200 