jekatcmklokaxquipkeooeisaoykisikhoimasge length 6 256910 page 10010 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 28 February 2019 12:00, 28 February 2019 (UTC) The Balcony ... that Mair von Landshut's prints (example shown) "resemble whimsical stage sets, and are endowed with an unreal character, like something from a fairy tale"? ... that when the ground is not flooded, Humboldt's white-fronted capuchin monkey has been known to raid aquatic turtle nests to eat the eggs? ... that Solrad 1 was the first satellite to successfully observe solar X-rays? ... that in the 2015 film Frankenstein vs. The Mummy, the director designed Frankenstein's monster to look like a muscular zombie with long black hair? ... that Alberto Jorge is the only association football manager to have won the Liga MX title as caretaker, doing so with Toluca in 2003? ... that Bach set the phrase "Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks" from Psalm 75 in German to begin a cantata, and in Latin in his Mass in B minor? ... that Chuang Shu-chi was the first licensed female practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine in Taiwan? ... that Vaunda Micheaux Nelson, author of Bad News for Outlaws, asked that US black deputy marshal Bass Reeves appear unclothed in an illustration to ensure its historical accuracy? 00:00, 28 February 2019 (UTC) Tom Barrass ... that Australian rules footballer Tom Barrass (pictured) injured his back while using a dustpan and missed six matches? ... that XTC's Oranges & Lemons, released 30 years ago today, reinterpreted 1960s psychedelic music styles using 1980s instrumentation and technology? ... that Chen Chao-long performed the first liver transplant in Asia, as well as Taiwan's first living donor liver transplantation? ... that the 1945 Bierut Decree nationalized all land in the Polish capital of Warsaw after the city's destruction by the Nazis? ... that William McSherry arranged for the sale in 1838 of the slaves who worked the Jesuit province in Maryland? ... that Hintersche, a historical card game played by farmers, foresters and journeymen in the Principality of Fürstenberg, is still played in the Black Forest today? ... that the soprano Julia Kleiter has appeared internationally in Mozart operas, as both Susanna and the Countess in Figaro, and both Papagena and Pamina in The Magic Flute? ... that the innkeeper worm catches its food with a net and then swallows the net? 27 February 2019 12:00, 27 February 2019 (UTC) Mouth and tentacles of the spotted wobbegong ... that prey of the spotted wobbegong (pictured) have been known to approach its mouth and nibble on its tentacles? ... that Reina Ueda voiced 18 sisters in the anime series Tesagure! Bukatsu-mono? ... that the first attempt of the British and Irish Magnetic Telegraph Company to lay a submarine telegraph cable to Ireland failed because the cable would not reach that far? ... that Ambrosia Tønnesen is regarded as the first professional female sculptor in Norway? ... that Cleitarchus's History of Alexander, written in the fourth century BC, was criticized by contemporaries as being overly sensational? ... that Karl Plagge's efforts to rescue Jews during the Holocaust succeeded because he entered a "grey zone" of moral compromise? ... that role-playing video game Dungeon Siege III has so many items with unexplained statistics that it left reviewers confused? ... that quarterback Sammy Baugh was investigated by the National Football League after missing the 1942 NFL All-Star Game because he had the flu? 00:00, 27 February 2019 (UTC) "Wolf's teeth" badge from a 1645 map of Transylvania ... that "wolf's teeth" were once a feature of Transylvanian state symbols (example shown)? ... that Edris Allan, the first telephone operator for the Jamaica All Island Telephone Service, married Sir Harold Allan, the first Afro-Jamaican to be knighted? ... that the main venue of the Landestheater Detmold was built from 1914–18, after the 1825 court theatre of the Principality of Lippe burnt down? ... that Yu-chien Kuan fled China using a stolen Japanese passport, was jailed in Egypt, and then became a sinologist and advisor to the German chancellor? ... that actor Michael Rennie and temperance activist Catherine Gurney are buried in Harlow Hill Cemetery? ... that Chinese soybean geneticist Wang Lianzheng was elected a foreign fellow of the Indian and Russian national academies of agricultural sciences? ... that a Cleveland film critic said the acting in the 1923 film The Net "doesn't warrant complimentary adjectives"? ... that in 1844 Thomas Barry sailed along the River Thames in a tub pulled by four geese? 26 February 2019 12:00, 26 February 2019 (UTC) Sophie Karthäuser ... that among the Mozart roles sung by soprano Sophie Karthäuser (pictured) are Ilia, Tamiri, and Serpetta? ... that cardiac allograft vasculopathy is a complication of heart transplantation that affects up to half of recipients within ten years? ... that Liang Weiyan and his team designed the water turbines of the world's largest power plant? ... that otters and seabirds seem to be able to detect when butter clams are toxic, but humans cannot? ... that Nina Morrison was nominated for the 2019 AFL Women's Rising Star award on debut – but suffered a season-ending knee injury in training the next week? ... that in 1407, Admiral Zheng He's treasure fleet defeated the pirate force of Chen Zuyi, who had occupied Palembang in today's Indonesia, and sent him back to China for execution? ... that the Payún Matrú volcano, last active about 500 years ago, is the source of the longest Quaternary lava flow on Earth? ... that in 1832, sugar planter Hamilton Brown argued that slaves in Jamaica were better off than the poor in Britain? 00:00, 26 February 2019 (UTC) Thatched barnacles (left) and channeled dog winkles (right) ... that the channeled dog winkle drills into shells of the thatched barnacle (both species pictured) and injects a toxin to gain access to the soft parts? ... that Joyce Sumbi, one of thirteen black librarians in the 242-librarian LA County Library system in 1971, charged her employer with discrimination against minorities? ... that the "sleepy town" of Tarraville, Australia, with a population of around 80, was once the largest town in Gippsland? ... that Freeman Dyson used a result by Marian Pour-El on the mathematical undecidability of the wave equation as evidence for the superiority of analog to digital forms of life? ... that St. John the Evangelist Church was the first Catholic church in Frederick County, Maryland, and the first church consecrated in the Archdiocese of Baltimore? ... that Isabel Chan is part of the singing trio MKB48, whose full name is Mega Karaoke Bitches 48? ... that, in the United States, mobile field forces are used by police to deal with civil disorder by targeting "agitators"? ... that British-Pakistani director Sarmad Masud describes his 2017 film My Pure Land as "a modern-day feminist Western set in Pakistan"? 25 February 2019 12:00, 25 February 2019 (UTC) Abby Franquemont ... that hand-spinning writer Abby Franquemont (pictured) spent her early childhood in Peru, where women "spun to eat and pay for the home they lived in"? ... that larvae of the red tube worm do not settle on bull kelp, probably because that seaweed inflates its float chambers with carbon monoxide? ... that professional world barrel-racing champion Hailey Kinsel won $433,333.33 in one day at the American Rodeo in February 2017? ... that the economy of the Philippines under Ferdinand Marcos saw its first crisis in 1969 because of heavy borrowing in preparation for the Marcos re-election campaign? ... th contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2019/February responseCode 3 200 