jetkmopsialqagkimsfqniykbizavkzkkqgctkum length 6 268349 page 10000 Wikimedia project behavioral guidelines regarding conflicts of interest If you want to report a problematic conflict of interest editor, see Wikipedia:Conflict of interest/Noticeboard. For practical advice for editors who might have a conflict of interest, see Wikipedia:Plain and simple conflict of interest guide "Wikipedia:CONFLICT" redirects here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:CONFLICT (disambiguation). This page documents an English Wikipedia behavioral guideline. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page. Shortcuts WP:COI WP:CONFLICT This page in a nutshell: Do not edit Wikipedia in your own interests, nor in the interests of your external relationships. Conflict of interest (COI) editing involves contributing to Wikipedia about yourself, family, friends, clients, employers, or your financial and other relationships. Any external relationship can trigger a conflict of interest. Someone having a conflict of interest is a description of a situation, not a judgment about that person's opinions, integrity, or good faith. COI editing is strongly discouraged on Wikipedia. It undermines public confidence and risks causing public embarrassment to the individuals and companies being promoted. Editors with a COI are sometimes unaware of whether or how much it has influenced their editing. If COI editing causes disruption, an administrator may opt to place blocks on the involved accounts. Editors with a COI, including paid editors, are expected to disclose it whenever they seek to change an affected article's content. Anyone editing for pay must disclose who is paying them, who the client is, and any other relevant affiliation; this is a requirement of the Wikimedia Foundation. COI editors are strongly discouraged from editing affected articles directly, and can propose changes on article talk pages instead. However, our policy on matters relating to living people allows very obvious errors to be fixed quickly, including by the subject. When investigating COI editing, do not reveal the identity of editors against their wishes. Wikipedia's policy against harassment, and in particular the prohibition against disclosing personal information, takes precedence over this guideline. To report COI editing, follow the advice at How to handle conflicts of interest, below. Editors making or discussing changes to this guideline or related guidance shall disclose whether they have been paid to edit Wikipedia. Wikipedia guidelines Guidelines list Policies list Behavioral Assume good faith Conflict of interest Courtesy vanishing Disruptive editing Don't bite the newcomers Don't disrupt to make a point Etiquette Gaming the system User pages Other behavioral guidelines WMF friendly space policy Discussions Talk page guidelines Signatures Content Citing sources External links Reliable sources medicine Fringe theories Non-free content Offensive material Don't copy long texts Don't create hoaxes Patent nonsense Other content guidelines Editing Article size Be bold Edit summary Understandability Other editing guidelines Organization Categories, lists, templates Categorization Disambiguation Style Manual of Style contents lists tables Deletion Deletion process Speedy keep Deletion guidelines for administrators Project content Project pages WikiProjects Templates User pages User boxes Shortcuts Subpages Other Naming conventions Notability v t e Wikipedia's position[edit] Purpose of Wikipedia[edit] Further information: Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not As an encyclopedia, Wikipedia's mission is to provide the public with articles that summarize accepted knowledge, written neutrally and sourced reliably. Readers expect to find neutral articles written independently of their subject, not corporate or personal webpages, or platforms for advertising and self-promotion. Articles should contain only material that complies with Wikipedia's content policies and best practices, and Wikipedians must place the interests of the encyclopedia and its readers above personal concerns. COI editing[edit] See also: Wikipedia:Plain and simple conflict of interest guide Shortcut WP:COIEDIT Editors with a COI should follow Wikipedia policies and best practices scrupulously: you should disclose your COI when involved with affected articles; you are strongly discouraged from editing affected articles directly; you may propose changes on talk pages (by using the {{edit COI}} template), or by posting a note at the COI noticeboard, so that they can be peer reviewed; you should put new articles through the Articles for Creation (AfC) process instead of creating them directly; you should not act as a reviewer of affected article(s) at AfC, new pages patrol or elsewhere; you should respect other editors by keeping discussions concise. Note that no one on Wikipedia controls articles. If Wikipedia hosts an article about you or your organization, others may add information that would otherwise remain little known. They may also decide to delete the article or decide to keep it should you later request deletion. The media has several times drawn attention to companies that engage in COI editing on Wikipedia (see Conflict-of-interest editing on Wikipedia), which has led to embarrassment for the organizations concerned. Paid editing[edit] Shortcuts WP:PE WP:PAY WP:NOPR WP:NOPAY WP:FCOI An editor has a financial conflict of interest when they write about a topic with which they have a close financial relationship. This includes being an owner, employee, contractor, investor or other stakeholder. Being paid to contribute to Wikipedia is one form of financial COI; it places the paid editor in a conflict between their employer's goals and Wikipedia's goals. The kind of paid editing of most concern to the community involves using Wikipedia for public relations and marketing purposes. Sometimes called "paid advocacy," this is problematic because it invariably reflects the interests of the client or employer. The Wikimedia Foundation requires that all paid editing be disclosed. Additionally, global policy requires that (if applicable) you must provide links on your user-page to all active accounts on external websites through which you advertise, solicit or obtain paid editing. If you receive or expect to receive compensation (money, goods or services) for your contributions to Wikipedia, the policy on the English Wikipedia is: you must disclose who is paying you, on whose behalf the edits are made, and any other relevant affiliation; you should make the disclosure on your user page, on affected talk pages, and whenever you discuss the topic; you are strongly discouraged from editing affected articles directly; you may propose changes on talk pages by using the {{edit COI}} template or by posting a note at the COI noticeboard, so that they can be peer reviewed; you should put new articles through the Articles for Creation (AfC) process instead of creating them directly; you must not act as a reviewer of affected article(s) at AfC, new pages patrol or elsewhere; you should respect volunteers by keeping discussions concise (see WP:PAYTALK). Requested edits are subject to the same standards as any other, and editors may decline to act on them. The guide to effective COI edit requests provides guidance in this area. To find an article's talk page, click the "talk" button at the top of the article. See WP:TEAHOUSE if you have questions about these things. If you are an administrator, you must not use administrative tools for any paid-editing activity (except when related to work as a Wikipedian-in-residence, or as someone paid by the Wikimedia Foundation or an affiliate). Wikimedia Foundation terms of use[edit] Further information: Wikipedia:Paid-contribution disclosure The Wikimedia Foundation's terms of use require that editors who are being paid for their contributions disclose their employer (the person or organization who is paying for the edits); the client (the person or organization on whose behalf the edits are made); and any other relevant affiliation. This is the policy of the English Wikipedia. How to disclose a COI[edit] General COI[edit] Shortcuts WP:DISCLOSE WP:DCOI If you become involved in an article where you have any COI, you should always let other editors know about it, whenever and wherever you discuss the topic. There are three venues to do this. 1. If you want to use a template to do this, place {{connected contributor}} at the top of the affected talk page, fill it in as follows, and save: Connected contributor template {{Connected contributor|User1=Your username |U1-declared=yes| U1-otherlinks=(Optional) Insert relevant affiliations, disclosures, article drafts or diffs showing COI contributions.}} Note that someone else may add this for you. 2. You can also make a statement in the edit summary of any COI contribution. 3. If you want to note the COI on your user page, you can use the {{UserboxCOI}} template: UserboxCOI template Edit the source of your user page and type {{UserboxCOI|1=Wikipedia article name}}, then click "save". Example For a COI disclosure, see Talk:Steve Jobs In this edit, one editor added a COI declaration for another editor. Also, if you propose significant or potentially controversial changes to an affected article, you can use the {{edit COI}} template. Place this at the bottom of the talk page and state your suggestion beneath it (be sure to sign it with four tildes, ~~~~). If the proposal is verifiable and appropriate, it will usually be accepted. If it is declined, the editor declining the request will usually add an explanation below your entry. Paid editors[edit] Shortcuts WP:COIPAYDISCLOSE WP:COIDISCLOSEPAY WP:UPE Further information: Wikipedia:Paid-contribution disclosure If you are being paid for your contributions to Wikipedia, you must declare who is payi contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 64 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Conflict_of_interest responseCode 3 200 