jikawqgohmosroriosugaosmccuowanobsmqgams length 5 96623 page 4371 Spanish politician (born 1968) You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Spanish. (April 2017) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Spanish article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 5,135 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Spanish Wikipedia article at [[:es:Emiliano García-Page]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|es|Emiliano García-Page}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. In this Spanish name, the first or paternal surname is García-Page and the second or maternal family name is Sánchez. Emiliano García-Page President of Castile-La Mancha Incumbent Assumed office 4 July 2015 Monarch Felipe VI Preceded by María Dolores de Cospedal Personal details Born Emiliano García-Page Sánchez (1968-06-11) 11 June 1968 (age 55) Toledo, Castilla-La Mancha, Spain Political party Spanish Socialist Workers' Party Alma mater University of Castilla-La Mancha Emiliano García-Page Sánchez (born 11 June 1968) is a Spanish politician from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party who is the President of Castile-La Mancha since 2015.[1] García-Page was the Mayor of Toledo from 2007 to 2015;[2] after the 2015 city council election, he was succeeded in the position by Milagros Tolón.[3] References[edit] ^ Agencia EFE (1 July 2015). "Emiliano García Page elegido Presidente de Castilla-La Mancha". Cadena SER (in Spanish). Toledo. Retrieved 20 April 2017. ^ "Emiliano García-Page es investido presidente de C-LM". Europa Press. 1 July 2017. ^ "Así han sido las investiduras de las principales capitales de provincia". El Imparcial. 13 June 2015. External links[edit] Emiliano García-Page Sánchez Junta of Communities of Castile-La Mancha website Political offices Preceded by Isidro Hernández Perlines Councillor for Public Works of Castile-La Mancha 1997-1998 Succeeded by Araceli Muñoz de Pedro Preceded by Santiago Moreno González Councillor for Welfare of Castile-La Mancha 1999-2000 Succeeded by Tomás Mañas González Preceded by Office created Second Vice President of Castile-La Mancha 2005-2007 Succeeded by María Luisa Araújo Preceded by José Manuel Molina Mayor of Toledo 2007-2015 Succeeded by Milagros Tolón Preceded by María Dolores de Cospedal President of Castile-La Mancha 2015–present Succeeded by Incumbent Party political offices Preceded by Francisco Belmonte Leader of the Socialist Group en the Cortes of Castile-La Mancha 2000-2001 Succeeded by Francisco Belmonte Preceded by José María Barreda Secretary-General of the Socialist Workers' Party of Castile-La Mancha 2012–present Succeeded by Incumbent v t e Current presidents of the autonomous communities of Spain Andalusia: Moreno (PP) Aragon: Azcón (PP) Asturias: Barbón (PSOE) Balearic Islands: Prohens (PP) Basque Country: Urkullu (EAJ-PNV) Canary Islands: Clavijo (CC) Cantabria: Sáenz de Buruaga (PP) Castilla–La Mancha: García-Page (PSOE) Castile and León: Fernández Mañueco (PP) Catalonia: Aragonès (ERC) Extremadura: Guardiola (PP) Galicia: Rueda (PP) La Rioja: Capellán (PP) Community of Madrid: Díaz Ayuso (PP) Region of Murcia: López Miras (PP) Navarre: Chivite (PSOE) Valencian Community: Mazón (PP) Ceuta:1 Vivas (PP) Melilla:1 Imbroda (PP) 1 Autonomous cities. Authority control databases International VIAF Other IdRef This article about a mayor in Spain is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e This article about a Castilian–Manchego politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Emiliano_Garc%C3%ADa-Page responseCode 3 200 