jinkpammhoyccsdmbetcisqgwmimdgboakzeaium length 6 308039 page 10073 Simple curve of Euclidean geometry This article is about the shape and mathematical concept. For other uses, see Circle (disambiguation). "360 degrees" and "360°" redirect here. For other uses, see 360 degrees (disambiguation). Circle A circle circumference C diameter D radius R centre or origin O Type Conic section Symmetry group O(2) Area πR2 Perimeter C = 2πR Geometry Projecting a sphere to a plane Outline History (Timeline) Branches Euclidean Non-Euclidean Elliptic Spherical Hyperbolic Non-Archimedean geometry Projective Affine Synthetic Analytic Algebraic Arithmetic Diophantine Differential Riemannian Symplectic Discrete differential Complex Finite Discrete/Combinatorial Digital Convex Computational Fractal Incidence Noncommutative geometry Noncommutative algebraic geometry Concepts Features Dimension Straightedge and compass constructions Angle Curve Diagonal Orthogonality (Perpendicular) Parallel Vertex Congruence Similarity Symmetry Zero-dimensional Point One-dimensional Line segment ray Length Two-dimensional Plane Area Polygon Triangle Altitude Hypotenuse Pythagorean theorem Parallelogram Square Rectangle Rhombus Rhomboid Quadrilateral Trapezoid Kite Circle Diameter Circumference Area Three-dimensional Volume Cube cuboid Cylinder Dodecahedron Icosahedron Octahedron Pyramid Platonic Solid Sphere Tetrahedron Four- / other-dimensional Tesseract Hypersphere Geometers by name Aida Aryabhata Ahmes Alhazen Apollonius Archimedes Atiyah Baudhayana Bolyai Brahmagupta Cartan Coxeter Descartes Euclid Euler Gauss Gromov Hilbert Huygens Jyeṣṭhadeva Kātyāyana Khayyám Klein Lobachevsky Manava Minkowski Minggatu Pascal Pythagoras Parameshvara Poincaré Riemann Sakabe Sijzi al-Tusi Veblen Virasena Yang Hui al-Yasamin Zhang List of geometers by period BCE Ahmes Baudhayana Manava Pythagoras Euclid Archimedes Apollonius 1–1400s Zhang Kātyāyana Aryabhata Brahmagupta Virasena Alhazen Sijzi Khayyám al-Yasamin al-Tusi Yang Hui Parameshvara 1400s–1700s Jyeṣṭhadeva Descartes Pascal Huygens Minggatu Euler Sakabe Aida 1700s–1900s Gauss Lobachevsky Bolyai Riemann Klein Poincaré Hilbert Minkowski Cartan Veblen Coxeter Present day Atiyah Gromov v t e A circle is a shape consisting of all points in a plane that are at a given distance from a given point, the centre. The distance between any point of the circle and the centre is called the radius. The circle has been known since before the beginning of recorded history. Natural circles are common, such as the full moon or a slice of round fruit. The circle is the basis for the wheel, which, with related inventions such as gears, makes much of modern machinery possible. In mathematics, the study of the circle has helped inspire the development of geometry, astronomy and calculus. Terminology Annulus: a ring-shaped object, the region bounded by two concentric circles. Arc: any connected part of a circle. Specifying two end points of an arc and a centre allows for two arcs that together make up a full circle. Centre: the point equidistant from all points on the circle. Chord: a line segment whose endpoints lie on the circle, thus dividing a circle into two segments. Circumference: the length of one circuit along the circle, or the distance around the circle. Diameter: a line segment whose endpoints lie on the circle and that passes through the centre; or the length of such a line segment. This is the largest distance between any two points on the circle. It is a special case of a chord, namely the longest chord for a given circle, and its length is twice the length of a radius. Disc: the region of the plane bounded by a circle. In strict mathematical usage, a circle is only the boundary of the disc, while in everyday the terms "circle" and "disc" may be used interchangeably. Lens: the region common to (the intersection of) two overlapping discs. Radius: a line segment joining the centre of a circle with any single point on the circle itself; or the length of such a segment, which is half (the length of) a diameter. Usually, the radius is denoted r {\displaystyle r} and required to be a positive number. A circle with r = 0 {\displaystyle r=0} is a degenerate case consisting of a single point. Sector: a region bounded by two radii of equal length with a common centre and either of the two possible arcs, determined by this centre and the endpoints of the radii. Segment: a region bounded by a chord and one of the arcs connecting the chord's endpoints. The length of the chord imposes a lower boundary on the diameter of possible arcs. Sometimes the term segment is used only for regions not containing the centre of the circle to which their arc belongs to. Secant: an extended chord, a coplanar straight line, intersecting a circle in two points. Semicircle: one of the two possible arcs determined by the endpoints of a diameter, taking its midpoint as centre. In non-technical common usage it may mean the interior of the two-dimensional region bounded by a diameter and one of its arcs, that is technically called a half-disc. A half-disc is a special case of a segment, namely the largest one. Tangent: a coplanar straight line that has one single point in common with a circle ("touches the circle at this point"). All of the specified regions may be considered as open, that is, not containing their boundaries, or as closed, including their respective boundaries. Chord, secant, tangent, radius, and diameter Arc, sector, and segment Etymology The word circle derives from the Greek κίρκος/κύκλος (kirkos/kuklos), itself a metathesis of the Homeric Greek κρίκος (krikos), meaning "hoop" or "ring".[1] The origins of the words circus and circuit are closely related. History Circular cave paintings in Santa Barbara County, California Circular piece of silk with Mongol images Circles in an old Arabic astronomical drawing. Prehistoric people made stone circles and timber circles, and circular elements are common in petroglyphs and cave paintings.[2] Disc-shaped prehistoric artifacts include the Nebra sky disc and jade discs called Bi. The Egyptian Rhind papyrus, dated to 1700 BCE, gives a method to find the area of a circle. The result corresponds to 256/81 (3.16049...) as an approximate value of π.[3] Book 3 of Euclid's Elements deals with the properties of circles. Euclid's definition of a circle is: A circle is a plane figure bounded by one curved line, and such that all straight lines drawn from a certain point within it to the bounding line, are equal. The bounding line is called its circumference and the point, its centre. — Euclid, Elements, Book I[4]: 4  In Plato's Seventh Letter there is a detailed definition and explanation of the circle. Plato explains the perfect circle, and how it is different from any drawing, words, definition or explanation. Early science, particularly geometry and astrology and astronomy, was connected to the divine for most medieval scholars, and many believed that there was something intrinsically "divine" or "perfect" that could be found in circles.[5][6] In 1880 CE, Ferdinand von Lindemann proved that π is transcendental, proving that the millennia-old problem of squaring the circle cannot be performed with straightedge and compass.[7] Symbolism and religious use The compass in this 13th-century manuscript is a symbol of God's act of Creation. Notice also the circular shape of the halo. From the time of the earliest known civilisations – such as the Assyrians and ancient Egyptians, those in the Indus Valley and along the Yellow River in China, and the Western civilisations of ancient Greece and Rome during classical Antiquity – the circle has been used directly or indirectly in visual art to convey the artist's message and to express certain ideas. However, differences in worldview (beliefs and culture) had a great impact on artists’ perceptions. While some emphasised the circle's perimeter to demonstrate their democratic manifestation, others focused on its centre to symbolise the concept of cosmic unity. In mystical doctrines, the circle mainly symbolises the infinite and cyclical nature of existence, but in religious traditions it represents heavenly bodies and divine spirits. The circle signifies many sacred and spiritual concepts, including unity, infinity, wholeness, the universe, divinity, balance, stability and perfection, among others. Such concepts have been conveyed in cultures worldwide through the use of symbols, for example, a compass, a halo, the vesica piscis and its derivatives (fish, eye, aureole, mandorla, etc.), the ouroboros, the Dharma wheel, a rainbow, mandalas, rose windows and so forth.[8] Magic circles are part of some traditions of Western esotericism. Analytic results Circumference Main article: Circumference The ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter is π (pi), an irrational constant approximately equal to 3.141592654. Thus the circumference C is related to the radius r and diameter d by: C = 2 π r = π d . {\displaystyle C=2\pi r=\pi d.} Area enclosed Area enclosed by a circle = π × area of the shaded square Main article: Area of a circle As proved by Archimedes, in his Measurement of a Circle, the area enclosed by a circle is equal to that of a triangle whose base has the length of the circle's circumference and whose height equals the circle's radius,[9] which comes to π multiplied by the radius squared: A r e a = π r 2 . {\displaystyle \mathrm {Area} =\pi r^{2}.} Equivalently, denoting diameter by d, A r e a = π d 2 4 ≈ 0.7854 d 2 , {\displaystyle \mathrm {Area} ={\frac {\pi d^{2}}{4}}\approx 0.7854d^{2},} that is, approximately 79% of the circumscribing square (whose side is of length d). The circle is the plane curve enclosing the maximum area for a given arc length. This relates the circle to a problem in the calculus of variations, namely the isoperimetric inequality. Equations Cartesian coordinates Circle of radius r = 1, centre (a, b) = (1.2, −0.5) Equation of a circle In an x–y Cartesian coordinate system, the circle with c contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 40 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Circle responseCode 3 200 