jiyofmjcoovkgorqzmeouozivouoxckogokagarc length 6 283071 page 10010 British order of chivalry "CBE" and "OBE" redirect here. For other uses, see CBE (disambiguation) and OBE (disambiguation). Most Excellent Order of the British Empire CBE neck decoration (in civil division) Awarded by the monarch of the United Kingdom Type Order of chivalry Established 1917 Motto For God and the Empire Eligibility British nationals, citizens of the Commonwealth realms, or anyone who has made a significant achievement for the United Kingdom Awarded for Prominent national or regional achievements[1] Status Currently constituted Sovereign Charles III Grand Master Vacant Grades Knight/Dame Grand Cross (GBE) Knight/Dame Commander (KBE/DBE) Commander (CBE) Officer (OBE) Member (MBE) Former grades Medal of the Order for Gallantry Precedence Next (higher) Royal Victorian Order Next (lower) Varies, depending on rank Military ribbon Civil ribbon The Most Excellent Order of the British Empire is a British order of chivalry, rewarding contributions to the arts and sciences, work with charitable and welfare organisations, and public service outside the civil service.[2] It was established on 4 June 1917 by King George V and comprises five classes across both civil and military divisions, the most senior two of which make the recipient either a knight if male or dame if female.[3] There is also the related British Empire Medal, whose recipients are affiliated with, but not members of, the order. Recommendations for all appointments to the Order of the British Empire were originally made on the nomination of the United Kingdom, the self-governing Dominions of the Empire (later Commonwealth) and the Viceroy of India. Nominations continue today from Commonwealth countries that participate in recommending British honours. Most Commonwealth countries ceased recommendations for appointments to the Order of the British Empire when they created their own honours.[a] Current classes[edit] The five classes of appointment to the Order are, from highest grade to lowest grade: Knight Grand Cross or Dame Grand Cross of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (GBE)[b] Knight Commander or Dame Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (KBE or DBE) Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE) Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (MBE) Styles and honorary knighthoods[edit] The senior two ranks of Knight or Dame Grand Cross, and Knight or Dame Commander, entitle their members to use the title of Sir for men and Dame for women before their forename. Most members are citizens of the United Kingdom or the Commonwealth realms that use the Imperial system of honours and awards. Honorary knighthoods are appointed to citizens of nations where the monarch is not head of state, and may permit use of post-nominal letters but not the title of Sir or Dame. Occasionally, honorary appointees are, incorrectly, referred to as Sir or Dame. Honorary appointees who later become a citizen of a Commonwealth realm can convert their appointment from honorary to substantive, then enjoy all privileges of membership of the order, including use of the title of Sir and Dame for the senior two ranks of the Order. An example is Irish broadcaster Terry Wogan, who was appointed an honorary Knight Commander of the Order in 2005, and on successful application for British citizenship, held alongside his Irish citizenship, was made a substantive member and subsequently styled as Sir Terry Wogan.[4][5] History[edit] MBE (civil division) as awarded in 1918 Grand Cross Star of the Order of the British Empire Close-up of an MBE from 1945 showing the "For God and the Empire" King George V founded the order to fill gaps in the British honours system: The orders of the Garter, Thistle, and of St Patrick honoured royals, peers, statesmen and eminent military commanders; The Order of the Bath honoured senior military officers and civil servants; The Order of St Michael and St George honoured diplomats and colonial officials; The Order of the Star of India and the Order of the Indian Empire honoured Indian rulers and British and Indian officials of the British Indian Empire; and The Royal Victorian Order, in the personal gift of the monarch, honoured those who had personally served the royal family. In particular, George V wished to create an order to honour the many thousands of those who had served in a variety of non-combat roles during the First World War. When first established, the Order had only one division. However, in 1918, soon after its foundation, it was formally divided into Military and Civil Divisions.[further explanation needed][6] The Order's motto is For God and the Empire.[2] At the foundation of the order, the Medal of the Order of the British Empire was instituted, to serve as a lower award granting recipients affiliation but not membership. In 1922, this was renamed the British Empire Medal (BEM). It stopped being awarded by the United Kingdom as part of the 1993 reforms to the honours system, but was again awarded beginning in 2012, starting with 293 BEMs awarded for Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee.[7] In addition, the BEM is awarded by the Cook Islands and by some other Commonwealth nations. In 2004, a report entitled A Matter of Honour: Reforming Our Honours System by a Commons committee recommended phasing out the Order of the British Empire, as its title was "now considered to be unacceptable, being thought to embody values that are no longer shared by many of the country's population".[8] Composition[edit] The British sovereign is the supreme head of the order and appoints all other officers of the order (by convention, on the advice of the governments of the United Kingdom and some Commonwealth realms). The second senior-most officer is the Grand Master, of whom there have been three: Edward, Prince of Wales (1917–1936); Queen Mary (1936–1953); and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh (1953–2021). The order is limited to 300 Knights and Dames Grand Cross, 845 Knights and Dames Commander, and 8,960 Commanders. There are no limits applied to the total number of members of the fourth and fifth classes, but no more than 858 officers and 1,464 members may be appointed per year. Foreign appointees, as honorary members, do not contribute to the numbers restricted to the order as full members do. Although the Order of the British Empire has by far the highest number of members of the British orders of chivalry, with over 100,000 living members worldwide, there are fewer appointments to knighthoods than in other orders.[2] Though men can be knighted separately from an order of chivalry (Knight Bachelor), women cannot, and so the rank of Knight/Dame Commander of the Order is the lowest rank of damehood, and second-lowest of knighthood (above Knights Bachelor). Because of this, an appointment as Dame Commander is made in circumstances in which a man would be created a Knight Bachelor. For example, by convention, female judges of the High Court of Justice are created Dames Commander after appointment, while male judges become Knights Bachelor. From time to time, individuals are appointed to a higher grade within the Order, thereby ceasing usage of the junior post-nominal letters. Officers[edit] In addition to the Sovereign and the Grand Master, the order has six further officers:[9] The King of Arms is not a member of the College of Arms, as are many other heraldic officers. The Lady Usher of the Purple Rod does not – unlike the Order of the Garter equivalent, the Lady Usher of the Black Rod – perform any duties related to the House of Lords. Prelate: Bishop of London, the Rt Hon. & Rt Rev. Dame Sarah Mullally DBE[10] Dean: Dean of St Paul's (ex officio), the Very Rev. Andrew Tremlett Secretary: The Secretary of the Central Chancery of the Orders of Knighthood, Lt-Col Stephen Segrave Registrar: The Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service, Simon Case CVO King of Arms: Lt-Gen Sir Robert Fulton KBE Lady Usher of the Purple Rod: Dame Amelia Fawcett DBE CVO Gallantry[edit] OBE silver oak-leaf emblem for gallantry Although initially intended to recognise meritorious service, the order began to also be awarded for gallantry. There were an increased number of cases in the Second World War for service personnel and civilians including the merchant navy, police, emergency services and civil defence, mostly MBEs but with a small number of OBEs and CBEs. Such awards were for gallantry that did not reach the standard of the George Medal, but, as an order, were listed before it on the Order of Wear. Awards for meritorious service usually appear without a citation but there were often citations for gallantry awards, some detailed and graphic.[11] From 14 January 1958, these awards were designated Commander, Officer or Member of the Order of the British Empire for Gallantry.[12] Any individual made a member of the order for gallantry after 14 January 1958 wears an emblem of two crossed silver oak leaves on the same ribbon as the badge, with a miniature version on the ribbon bar when worn alone. When the ribbon only is worn the emblem is worn in miniature.[12] It could not be awarded posthumously, and was replaced in 1974 with the Queen's Gallantry Medal (QGM). If recipients of the Order of the British Empire for Gallantry received promotion within the order, whether for gallantry or otherwise, they continued to wear also the insignia of the lower grade with the oak leaves.[13] However, they used only the post-nominal letters of the higher grade. Vestments and accoutrements[edit] Members of the order wear elaborate vestments on important occasions (such as quadrennial services and coronations), which vary by rank (the designs underwent major changes in 1937): The mantle, worn by only Knights and Dames Grand Cross, was originally made of yellow satin lined with blue silk, but is now made of rose pink satin lined with pear contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 83 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Dame_Commander_of_the_Order_of_the_British_Empire responseCode 3 200 