jkbqoogkkgimwcsgxoocpccqgajcakncioymiogs length 5 70315 page 2819 Main Page toolbox Yesterday November 16 Today November 17, 2023 Tomorrow November 18 TFA TFA TFA SA/OTD SA/OTD SA/OTD POTD Main Page v. POTD Main Page v. POTD Main Page v. POTD regular v. POTD regular v. POTD regular v. TFL (Friday) Main Page queue In the news candidates discussion admin instructions Did you know nominations discussion queue BotErrors Protected pages Commons media protection Associated Error reports General discussion FAQ Help CSS Sandbox CSS History Alternatives April Fools' It is currently 22:57 UTC. Purge the Main Page Purge this page Administrator instructions for WP:ERRORS: Check that the error has consensus or is uncontroversial (spelling, etc.). Make sure that any necessary changes are made to the supporting article(s) first. Fix the error. See the toolbox on the side for links. Caveat: if you're changing a picture, please protect it first! For DYK errors: amend the record at the article's talk page, as required. For POTD errors: make the same changes to the unprotected version of the blurb. Remove the report from the page, using an edit summary such as "Done – Fixed misspelling of foobar in WP:ITN." If an item in an error report is no longer present on the main page, it can be removed immediately. Rejected items should be replied to, and left for up to six hours, unless the report is bogus or vandalism. As always, use common sense: check to make sure that a report is accurate before applying the proposed fix. v t e Main Page and featured content Main Page topics Errors Administrator instructions Main Page alternatives FAQ Editing Design Queue Yesterday Tomorrow History Wikipedia languages Sister projects Sandbox April Fools' Day Don't delete! Today's featured article Requests Pending requests Recent Oddities Most viewed Not yet used Featured articles Criteria Candidates Log Review Archive Statistics Former featured articles Unreviewed Did you know... Discussion Rules Guidelines Nominations Reviewing guide Preps & Queues Archive Stats In the news Error reports Nominations Discussion Admin guide General criteria Death criteria Recurring items Awards Sports Discussion Archives Candidate archives Current events portal Current events portal for sports Discussion How the Current events portal works How to archive the portal Selected anniversaries Discussion Holidays and observances All Today's featured list Submissions Statistics Previously run lists Get involved Featured lists Criteria Candidates Log Task force Removal candidates Review list Log Former featured lists Picture of the day Guidelines Unused Archive Tomorrow Featured pictures Criteria Candidates Nomination procedure Featured topics Featured topics on the main page Candidates Log Nomination procedure Criteria Removal candidates Good topics Former featured topics Featured topic questions contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 87 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Main_Page/Errors/Administrator_instructions responseCode 3 200 