jkfolivoycnstqakzcdchayghitgtgvkaobqdghi length 6 143371 page 8196 Mon-Khmer ethnic group Palaung De'ang A Ta'ang tribal woman near Kalaw, Shan State, Burma Total population 557,000 (est.) Regions with significant populations Burma, smaller populations in Yunnan, China and Thailand Languages Ta'ang Religion Theravada Buddhism A Burmese depiction of the Palaung in the early 1900s. The Palaung (Burmese: ပလောင် လူမျိုး [pəlàʊɰ̃ lùmjó]; Thai: ปะหล่อง, also written as Benglong Palong) or Ta'ang are a Mon–Khmer ethnic minority found in Shan State of Burma, Yunnan Province of China and Northern Thailand. In China, they are referred to as the De'ang (Chinese: 德昂族; pinyin: Déángzú also spelt Deang) people. They live mainly in the northern parts of Shan State in the Pa Laung Self-Administered Zone, with the capital at Namhsan. The Ta'ang (Palaung) State Liberation Army, the armed wing of the Palaung ethnic group, began fighting against the Burmese military in 1963. It entered a cease-fire agreement with the central government in April 1991, but is currently continuing the insurgency.[1] Both the government and the rebel armies have derived benefit from poppy cultivation, which has caused serious drug addiction among the local people.[2] Groups[edit] Palaung woman in British Burma. There are three main subgroups of Palaung: the Palé, Shwe and Rumai.[3] The Chinese government groups together the Palé, Riang, Rumai and Shwe peoples as the De'ang ethnic nationality. The group also includes the Danau (Danaw) who may no longer have a separate identity from the Palé. Language[edit] Main article: Palaung language There are three main principal Palaung languages: Palé (Ruching), Rumai, and Shwe (Ta'ang or De'ang). Distribution[edit] In China, the De'ang are found in the following villages of Zhenkang County and Gengma County.[4] In China, they are known as the Laopulao (牢普劳); there are six other De'ang groups located in Burma.[4] Dazhai Township (大寨乡), Muchang District (木厂区), Zhenkang County: Bangwa (邦娃) Dazhai (大寨), Xiazhai (下寨), Huoshishan (火石山), Laobandeng (老班登), Mahuangqing (蚂蟥箐) of Chaikao (柴考) Nansan Township (南伞乡), Pengmushan District (彭木山区), Zhenkang County: Xiaochanggou (销长沟), Beiyan (北岩) Hongmulin (红木林) and Manxing (曼兴) of Hewai District (河外区), Gengma County: Junnong (君弄), Mamao (马冒), Jinmo (金莫), Muyin (木因), Xungang (巡岗) Religion[edit] Most Ta'ang are adherents of Theravada Buddhism and Buddhist temples can be found in most of their towns. Buddhism is present in all of the daily activities of this ethnic group. At the age of ten, many children are sent to the monasteries, primarily for education. Most of them return to lay life in later years. The Riang are the only one of the four groups who have never converted to Buddhism. The majority of the Riang are animists. See also[edit] Palaung language Ta'ang National Liberation Army Further reading[edit] Palaung Women's Organisation. (2006). Poisoned Flowers: The Impacts of Spiralling Drug Addiction on Palaung Women in Burma. Tak, Maesot, Thailand: Palaung Women's Organisation. Ashley, S. (2006). Exorcising with Buddha Palaung Buddhism in Northern Thailand. Ottawa: Library and Archives Canada = Bibliothèque et Archives Canada. ISBN 0-494-03309-6 Howard, M. C., & Wattana Wattanapun. (2001). The Palaung in Northern Thailand. Chiang Mai, Thailand: Silkworm Books. ISBN 974-88325-1-1 Cameron, A. A. (1912). Notes on the Palaung of the Kodaung Hill Tracts of Mong Mit State. Rangoon: Govt. Printer. Milne, Mrs. Leslie. (1924). The Home of an Eastern Clan: A Study of the Palaungs of the Shan State. Oxford: Clarendon Press. Gallery[edit] Palaung village near Kyaukme, Shan State, Burma References[edit] ^ "Ta'ang army suspends talks with govt as clashes continue". DVB. 27 August 2013. Archived from the original on 2014-08-03. Retrieved 2014-03-23. ^ "Turning a new leaf? Ethnic rebels along Myanmar's rugged frontier help eradicate poppy fields". Fox News. Associated Press. 12 December 2015. Archived from the original on 2015-04-21. Retrieved 2014-03-23. ^ "The Indigenous Palaung People". The Peoples of the World Foundation. Retrieved 2022-12-19. ^ a b 中国少数民族社会历史调查资料丛刊》修订编辑委员会. 2009. 德昂族社会历史调查, p. 94. Beijing: Minzu Chubanshe. External links[edit] Media related to De'ang people at Wikimedia Commons Ta'ang Students and Youth Organization v t e Ethnic groups in Myanmar Burmese people Kachin (12) Jingpaw Dalaung Gauri Hkahku Duleng Maru (Lawgore) Hpon Lashi (La Chit) Atsi Lisu Rawang Taron Ngochang Kayah (9) Geba Karen Gheko Karenni Ka-Yun (Kayan; Padaung) Manu Manaw Pale Yin Baw Yin Talai Zayein Kayin (Karen) (11) Pa-Le-Chi Mon Kayin (Sarpyu) S'gaw Ta-Hlay-Pwa Paku Bwe Monpwa Monnepwa Shu (Pwo) Chin (53) Anu Anun Asho Bre (Ka-Yaw) Cumtu Dai (Yindu) Dim Eik-swair Gunte (Lyente) Guite Hualngo Kaung Saing Chin Kaungso Kebar Khawno Kwangli (Sim) Kwelshin Kwe Myi Lai (Haka Chin) Laizao Lawhtu Laymyo Lhinbu Lyente Magun Malin Marma Matu Meithei (Kathe) Mgan Mi-er Lusayy Mro-Khimi people Naga Ngawn Oo-Pu Panun Rongtu Saing Zan Saline Senthang Tangkhul Tapong Tay-Zan Thado Tiddim (Hai-Dim) Torr (Tawr) Yin Gog Zahau Zahnyet (Zanniat) Sizang Zophei Zotung Zou Bamar (Burman) (9) Dawei Beik Yaw Yabein Kadu (Kado) Ganan Hpon Mon (1) Mon Rakhine (Arakanese) (7) Kamein (Kaman) Khami Daingnet Maramagyi Miram (Mara) Mru (Taung Mro) Thet Shan (33) Danaw (Danau) Danu Intha Pa-O Khamti Shan Khmu (Khamu) Kwi Kokang Lahu Palaung Shan Gale Shan Gyi Tai-Loi Tai Nua Tai-Lon Tai-Lay Taishon Taungyo Wa (Va) Yao Yin Kya Yin Net Yun Man Zi Pyin Eng Son Kaw (Akha-E-Kaw) Maw Shan Maingtha Hkun (Khün) Unrecognised / Others Anglo-Burmese Chinese Panthay Bayingyi Gurkha Mizo Indian Tamils Rohingya Malay Pakistani Taungtha v t e Ethnic groups in China Sino-Tibetan Sinitic Bai Han subgroups Hui Burmic Achang Akha Bisu Hani Jino Lahu Laomian Laopin Lisu Nu Yi Qiangic Gyalrong Nakhi Pumi Qiang Tibetic Daman Tibetan Monpa Others Baima Deng Derung Jingpo Lhoba Tujia Austroasiatic Blang Bolyu Kunge Khmu Lai Mang Pakan Palaung Vietnamese Wa Austronesian Filipino Gaoshan Hmong-Mien Miao She Yao Mongolic Bonan Daur Dongxiang Hamnigan Kangjia Khatso Mongolians Abaga Abaganar Aohans Baarins Chahars Gorlos Jalaids Jaruud Khalkha Kharchin Khishigten Khorchin Khuuchid Muumyangan Naimans Onnigud Ordos Sunud Urad Monguor Oirats Dzungar Khoid Khoshut Olot Torghut Upper Mongols Sogwo Arig Yugur Kra–Dai Bouyei Buyang Dai Tai Lue Tai Nua Dong Gelao Li Maonan Nùng Mulao Qabiao Rau Shan Sui Yang Zhuang Tungusic Evenks Manchus Nanai Oroqen Sibes Solon Turkic Altaians Dolan Kazakh Kyrgyz Salar Tatar Tuvans Uyghurs Uzbeks Yugur Indo-European Armenians Iranians Nepalis Pakistanis Russians Tajiks (Pamiris) Others African Chinese Indians Japanese Koreans Unrecognized Äynu Bu–Nao speakers Caijia Chuanqing Fuyu Kyrgyz Gejia Hmong Ili Turks Jews Kaifeng Jews Kucong Longjia Lu Macanese Nivkhs Utsuls Wakhis Waxiang Unrecognized ethnic groups in China Immigrant ethnic groups in China Historic ethnic groups v t e Ethnic and linguistic groups in Thailand by language family Kra–Dai Southwestern Tai Isan Khün Lao Lao Ga Lao Krang Lao Lom Lao Loum Lao Ngaew Lao Song Lao Ti Lao Wiang Tai Lu Tai Yuan Nyong Phu Thai Phuan Shan Siamese Khorat Thai Pak Tai Tai Bueng Tai Daeng Tai Dam Tai Gapong Kaleun Tai Nüa Tai Wang Northern Tai Saek Nyaw Yoy Austronesian Malayo-Polynesian Cham Filipino Malay Moken Moklen Phuket Baba Urak Lawoi’ Austroasiatic Khmuic Khmu Lua Mlabri Phai Pray Tin Bru Palaungic Blang Lamet Lawa Mok Palaung Mon–Khmer Chong Khmer Northern Western Mon Nyah Kur Kuy Pear Sa'och Aslian Maniq Kintaq Kensiu Vietic Aheu Vietnamese Sino-Tibetan Tibeto-Burman Burmese Akha Bamar Bisu Karen Kayah Lahu Lisu Lolo Mpi Pa'O Phrae Pwo Phunoi Pwo S'gaw Ugong Sinitic Teochew Hokkien Hakka Hainanese Cantonese Hokchew Chin Haw Hmong–Mien Hmong Yao Iu Mien Other Australians Farang Indians Iranians Japanese Koreans Nepalis Pakistanis Authority control databases National France BnF data Israel United States Other IdRef contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Ta%27ang_people responseCode 3 200 