jmqeqsbaiibavqtkemmgqqqohmlkqaqajoiibgki page 8490 Species of turtle Southern Vietnamese box turtle Southern Vietnamese box turtle Cuora (galbinifrons) picturata Conservation status Critically Endangered (IUCN 3.1)[1] CITES Appendix I (CITES)[2] Scientific classification Domain: Eukaryota Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genus: Cuora Species: C. picturata Binomial name Cuora picturata Lehr, Fritz & Obst, 1998 Synonyms Cistoclemmys picturata Cuora galbinifrons picturata The southern Vietnamese box turtle (Cuora picturata) is endemic to the southern mountainous regions of Vietnam, and possibly also occurring in extreme eastern Cambodia and southern Laos. It is known only from Khanh Hoa and southern Phu Yen provinces, but may also occur in eastern Dak Lak and northern Ninh Thuan provinces. This species was initially described as a subspecies of Cuora galbinifrons, but was shown to be genetically distinct.[3] This is the same for Cuora galbinifrons bourreti, which is much closely related to Cuora galbinifrons, though, in osteology, genetics and morphology than is Cuora picturata to either one. Thus, this variety probably truly deserves species status. This species has the highest-domed carapace of all Cuora species, the shape resembling a conquistador helmet. While the head coloration of Cuora galbinifrons subspecies is highly variable even in different populations, this is not the case with C. picturata, whose head is always yellow with a fine, greyish reticulation. They are commonly found in tropical, moist, and broadleaf evergreen forests.[4] References[edit] ^ McCormack, T.; Stuart, B.L.; Blanck, T. (2020). "Cuora picturata". IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 2020: e.T163463A123815952. doi:10.2305/IUCN.UK.2020-2.RLTS.T163463A123815952.en. Retrieved 19 November 2021. ^ "Appendices | CITES". cites.org. Retrieved 2022-01-14. ^ Stuart, B. L. & Parham, J. F. (2004). "Molecular phylogeny of the critically endangered Indochinese box turtle (Cuora galbinifrons)". Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution. 31: 164-177. ^ blueion (2023-04-23). "Species Spotlight! The Southern Vietnam Box Turtle!". Turtle Survival Alliance. Retrieved 2023-10-03. Lehr, E.; Fritz, U. & Obst, F. J. (1998)." Die Unterarten von Cuora galbinifrons Bourret, 1939". Zoologische Abhandlungen aus dem staatlichen Museum für Tierkunde in Dresden. 50: 77–97. v t e Family Geoemydidae Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genera Species of the family Geoemydidae †Banhxeochelys †Banhxeochelys trani Batagur Burmese roofed turtle Northern river terrapin Painted terrapin Red-crowned roofed turtle Southern river terrapin Three-striped roofed turtle Cuora Amboina box turtle Bourret's box turtle Indochinese box turtle McCord's box turtle Keeled box turtle Pan's box turtle Southern Vietnamese box turtle Golden coin turtle Vietnamese three-striped box turtle Yellow-headed box turtle Chinese box turtle Yunnan box turtle Zhou's box turtle Cyclemys Asian leaf turtle Assam leaf turtle Eastern black-bridged leaf turtle Enigmatic leaf turtle Myanmar brown leaf turtle Oldham's leaf turtle Western black-bridged leaf turtle †Echmatemys †Echmatemys septaria †Echmatemys stevensoniana †Echmatemys wyomingensis Geoclemys Black pond turtle Geoemyda Black-breasted leaf turtle Ryukyu black-breasted leaf turtle Hardella Brahminy river turtle Heosemys Arakan forest turtle Giant Asian pond turtle Spiny turtle Yellow-headed temple turtle Leucocephalon Sulawesi forest turtle Malayemys Malayan snail-eating turtle Mekong snail-eating turtle Khorat snail-eating turtle Mauremys Balkan pond turtle Caspian turtle Chinese pond turtle Chinese stripe-necked turtle Japanese pond turtle Red-necked pond turtle Spanish pond turtle Vietnamese pond turtle Yellow pond turtle Melanochelys Indian black turtle Tricarinate hill turtle Morenia Burmese eyed turtle Indian eyed turtle Notochelys Malayan flat-shelled turtle Orlitia Malaysian giant turtle Pangshura Assam roofed turtle Brown roofed turtle Indian roofed turtle Indian tent turtle †Pangshura tatrotia Rhinoclemmys Black wood turtle Brown wood turtle Colombian wood turtle Furrowed wood turtle Large-nosed wood turtle Maracaibo wood turtle Mexican spotted wood turtle Painted wood turtle Spot-legged wood turtle †Rhinoclemmys panamaensis Sacalia Beale's eyed turtle Four-eyed turtle Siebenrockiella Black marsh turtle Philippine forest turtle Vijayachelys Cane turtle Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on turtles of the world 2017 update: Annotated checklist and atlas of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution, and conservation status. †=Extinct. v t e Testudines Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder Superfamily Family Genus Cryptodira Chelonioidea (Sea turtles) Cheloniidae †Allopleuron Caretta †Carolinochelys Chelonia †Eochelone Eretmochelys †Gigantatypus †Glarichelys †Itilochelys Lepidochelys †Mexichelys †Miocaretta Natator †Pacifichelys †Syllomus †Tasbacka Dermochelyidae †Arabemys †Bouliachelys †Corsochelys †Cosmochelys Dermochelys †Eosphargis †Mesodermochelys †Psephophorus †Euclastes †Peritresius †Procolpochelys †Protosphargis †Puppigerus Kinosternoidea Dermatemydidae Dermatemys Kinosternidae Claudius †Hoplochelys Kinosternon Staurotypus Sternotherus Testudinoidea Emydidae Chrysemys Clemmys Deirochelys Emys Actinemys Emydoidea Glyptemys Graptemys Malaclemys Pseudemys Terrapene Trachemys Geoemydidae Batagur †Banhxeochelys Cuora Cyclemys Geoclemys Geoemyda Hardella Heosemys Leucocephalon Malayemys Mauremys Melanochelys Morenia Notochelys Orlitia Pangshura Rhinoclemmys Sacalia Siebenrockiella Vijayachelys Platysternidae Platysternon Testudinidae Aldabrachelys Astrochelys Centrochelys Chelonoidis Chersina Cylindraspis Geochelone Gopherus †Hadrianus †Hesperotestudo Homopus Indotestudo Kinixys Malacochersus Manouria †Megalochelys Psammobates Pyxis †Solitudo Stigmochelys †Stylemys Testudo Trionychia Carettochelyidae †Allaeochelys †Anosteira Carettochelys Trionychidae Amyda Apalone †Axestemys Chitra Cyclanorbis Cycloderma †Drazinderetes Dogania †Gilmoremys †Hutchemys †Khunnuchelys Lissemys Nilssonia Palea †Palaeoamyda Pelochelys Pelodiscus Rafetus Trionyx †Basilochelys †Sinaspideretes Chelydridae †Acherontemys Chelydra †Chelydrops †Chelydropsis †Emarginachelys †Macrocephalochelys Macrochelys †Planiplastron †Protochelydra †Nanhsiungchelyidae †Anomalochelys †Basilemys †Jiangxichelys †Protostegidae †Alienochelys †Archelon †Atlantochelys †Calcarichelys †Cratochelone †Desmatochelys †Iserosaurus †Notochelone †Ocepechelon †Pneumatoarthrus †Protostega †Rhinochelys †Santanachelys †Terlinguachelys †Adocus †Argillochelys †Bashuchelys †Ctenochelys †Prionochelys †Toxochelys Pleurodira †Araripemydidae †Araripemys †Bothremydidae †Araiochelys †Arenila †Azabbaremys †Bothremys †Cearachelys †Chedighaii †Chupacabrachelys †Eotaphrosphys †Foxemys †Galianemys †Ilatardia †Inaechelys †Itapecuruemys †Jainemys †Kinkonychelys †Kurmademys †Labrostochelys †Nigeremys †Phosphatochelys †Polysternon †Puentemys †Rosasia †Rhothonemys †Sankuchemys †Taphrosphys †Ummulisani †Zolhafah Chelidae Acanthochelys Chelodina Chelus Elseya Elusor Emydura Hydromedusa †Lomalatachelys Mesoclemmys Myuchelys Phrynops Platemys †Prochelidella Pseudemydura Rheodytes Rhinemys †Yaminuechelys Pelomedusidae Pelomedusa Pelusios Podocnemididae †Albertwoodemys †Bauruemys †Brontochelys †Caninemys †Carbonemys †Cerrejonemys †Cordichelys Erymnochelys †Lapparentemys †Latentemys Peltocephalus Podocnemis †Stupendemys †Sahonachelyidae †Sahonachelys †Sokatra †Caribemys †Caririemys †Tacuarembemys Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on Turtles of the World 2017 Update: Annotated Checklist and Atlas of Taxonomy, Synonymy, Distribution, and Conservation Status. † = extinct. See also List of Testudines families Taxon identifiers Cuora picturata Wikidata: Q2157282 Wikispecies: Cuora picturata CoL: 6C3P2 GBIF: 8072617 iNaturalist: 98798 ITIS: 949150 IUCN: 163463 NCBI: 241440 RD: picturata Species+: 65767 Cuora galbinifrons picturata Wikidata: Q26935661 GBIF: 6157088 contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 64 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Southern_Vietnamese_box_turtle responseCode 3 200 