jmwkaepmsqnalmjmagxkboyaastcympsdejicmhm length 6 525833 page 10018 First Lady of the United States from 1977 to 1981 Rosalynn Carter Official portrait, 1977 First Lady of the United States In role January 20, 1977 – January 20, 1981 President Jimmy Carter Preceded by Betty Ford Succeeded by Nancy Reagan First Lady of Georgia In role January 12, 1971 – January 14, 1975 Governor Jimmy Carter Preceded by Hattie Cox Succeeded by Mary Busbee Personal details Born Eleanor Rosalynn Smith (1927-08-18)August 18, 1927 Plains, Georgia, U.S. Died November 19, 2023(2023-11-19) (aged 96) Plains, Georgia, U.S. Political party Democratic Spouse Jimmy Carter (m. 1946) Children 4, including Jack and Amy Education Georgia Southwestern College Signature Eleanor Rosalynn Carter (/ˈroʊzəlɪn/ ROH-zə-lin; née Smith; August 18, 1927 – November 19, 2023) was an American writer and activist who served as the first lady of the United States from 1977 to 1981, as the wife of President Jimmy Carter. Throughout her decades of public service, she was perhaps best known for being a leading advocate for women's rights and mental health.[1] Carter was born and raised in Plains, Georgia, graduated as valedictorian[2] of Plains High School, and soon after attended Georgia Southwestern College, where she graduated in 1946. She first became attracted to her husband, also from Plains, after seeing a picture of him in his U.S. Naval Academy uniform, and they married in 1946. Carter helped her husband win the governorship of Georgia in 1970, and decided to focus her attention in the field of mental health when she was that state's first lady. She campaigned for her husband during his successful bid to become president of the United States in the 1976 election, defeating incumbent Republican president Gerald Ford. Carter was politically active during her husband's presidency, though she declared that she had no intention of being a traditional first lady. During his term of office, Carter supported her husband's public policies as well as his social and personal life. In order to remain fully informed, she sat in on Cabinet meetings at the invitation of the President. Carter also represented her husband in meetings with domestic and foreign leaders, including as an envoy to Latin America in 1977. He found her to be an equal partner. She campaigned for his re-election bid in the 1980 election, which he lost to Republican Ronald Reagan. After leaving the White House in 1981, Carter continued to advocate for mental health and other causes, and wrote several books. She and her husband contributed to the expansion of the nonprofit housing organization Habitat for Humanity. Carter was the second-longest-lived first lady after Bess Truman, and was the longest-married first lady. She and her husband received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1999. She died on November 19, 2023, two days after it had been announced that she had entered hospice care.[3] Early life Rosalynn Smith around age 17 in 1944 Eleanor Rosalynn Smith was born on August 18, 1927, in Plains, Georgia.[4] She was the eldest of four children of Wilburn Edgar Smith, an auto mechanic, bus driver and farmer, and Frances Allethea "Allie" Murray Smith, a teacher, dressmaker and postal worker. Her brothers were William Jerrold "Jerry" Smith (1929–2003), an engineer, and Murray Lee Smith (1932–2003), a teacher, and minister. Her sister, Lillian Allethea (Smith) Wall (born 1936), known as Allethea, named for her mother and for Lillian Gordy Carter (the Smith and Carter families being friends),[5] is a real estate broker. Rosalynn was named after Rosa Wise Murray, her maternal grandmother.[6] Smith's grand-uncle W.S. Wise was one of the American Brazilians known as Confederados who emigrated from the United States to the Brazilian Empire after the Civil War.[7] Smith's family lived in poverty, although she later said that she and her siblings were unaware of it, because even though their family "didn't have much money [...] neither did anyone else, so as far as we knew, we were well off".[8][9] Churches and schools were at the center of her family's community, and the people of Plains were familiar with each other.[10] Smith played with the boys during her early childhood since no girls on her street were her age. She drew buildings and was interested in airplanes, which led her to believe that she would someday become an architect.[11] Rosalynn's father died of leukemia in 1940 when she was thirteen. She called the loss of her father the conclusion of her childhood.[12] Thereafter, she helped her mother raise her younger siblings, as well as assisting in the dressmaking business in order to meet the family's financial obligations.[13] Rosalynn would credit her mother with inspiring her own independence and said that she learned from her mother that "you can do what you have to do".[14] At Plains High School, Rosalynn worked hard to achieve her father's dream of seeing her go to college.[13] Rosalynn graduated as salutatorian of Plains High School. Soon after, she attended Georgia Southwestern College and graduated in 1946.[15] Rosalynn first dated Jimmy Carter in 1945 while he was attending the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis.[16] She became attracted to him after seeing a picture of him in his Annapolis uniform.[5] The two were riding in the back seat of the car of Ruth Carter Stapleton's boyfriend when Jimmy surprised Rosalynn by kissing her. This was the first time that Rosalynn had ever allowed a boy to do so on the first date.[17] Rosalynn agreed to marry Jimmy in February 1946 when she went to Annapolis with his parents. The two scheduled their marriage to take place in July and kept the arrangement secret. Rosalynn was hesitant to tell her mother she had chosen to marry instead of continuing her education.[18] On July 7, 1946, they married in Plains. Their marriage caused Rosalynn to cancel her plans to attend Georgia State College for Women, where she had planned to study interior design.[19] The couple had four children: John William "Jack" (b. 1947), James Earl "Chip" III (b. 1950), Donnel Jeffrey "Jeff" (b. 1952), and Amy Lynn (b. 1967).[20] Politics First Lady of Georgia After helping her husband win the governorship of Georgia in 1970, Rosalynn decided to focus her attention mainly in the field of mental health when she was that state's First Lady.[21] She was appointed to the Governor's Commission to Improve Services for the Mentally and Emotionally Handicapped. Many of the Commission's recommendations were approved and became law. In August 1971, Carter engaged in a statewide tour of mental health facilities across Georgia.[22] She described her efforts on behalf of mentally disabled children as her proudest achievement as First Lady of Georgia.[23] Carter also served as a volunteer at the Georgia Regional Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia, and for four years was honorary chairperson for the Georgia Special Olympics.[24] Her work in addressing social issues made her "virtually revered in professional health care circles". Her activities included entertaining as many as 750 people a week for dinner at the Governor's Mansion.[25] Governor Carter once claimed that he had supported the Equal Rights Amendment while his wife was opposed to the measure, the First Lady privately confronting him upon hearing news of the claim.[26] Carter corrected himself by later announcing to the press, "I thought I knew what Rosalynn thought, but I was wrong."[27] 1976 presidential campaign When her husband's gubernatorial term ended in January 1975, Rosalynn, Jimmy and Amy Carter returned to Plains. Jimmy had already announced his plans to run for President of the United States. Rosalynn got back on the campaign trail, this time on a national quest to gather support for her husband. She campaigned alone on his behalf in 41 states. Because of her husband's obscurity at the time, she often had to answer the question, "Jimmy who?"[21] She promoted the establishment of additional daycare facilities and adjustments to "Social Security and so many other things to help the elderly".[28] During the months when she was campaigning across the country, she was elected to the board of directors of the National Association of Mental Health, honored by the National Organization for Women with an Award of Merit for her vigorous support for the Equal Rights Amendment, and received the Volunteer of the Year Award from the Southwestern Association of Volunteer Services.[29] Rosalynn sat in the balcony at Madison Square Garden with friends and family the night of the nomination while her husband was with his mother and daughter. She had "butterflies in her stomach" until the Ohio delegation announced its votes were for her husband. Rosalynn wished she could have been with him at that time.[30] The Carters met with all the potential running mates, and instantly gained affinity for Walter Mondale after meeting with him and his wife Joan.[31] Following the election, the Carters traveled to the White House and met with President Ford and First Lady Betty Ford,[32] the latter becoming a role model for Rosalynn.[33] First Lady of the United States (1977–1981) Major initiatives The First Family: Rosalynn, Jimmy and Amy on the South Lawn of the White House, July 24, 1977 When her husband assumed the presidency in January 1977, Rosalynn and Jimmy Carter walked hand-in-hand down Pennsylvania Avenue during his presidential inauguration parade. The gown that she wore to the inaugural balls was the same one that she had worn six years earlier at the Atlanta balls when Jimmy became governor.[34] Rosalynn Carter chairs a meeting in Chicago, Illinois, for the President's Commission on Mental Health on April 20, 1977. Rosalynn declared that she had no intention of being a traditional First Lady of the United States.[19] During her husband's administration, Rosalynn supported his public policies as well as his social and personal life. To remain fully informed, she sat in on Cabinet meetings at the invi contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Rosalynn_Carter responseCode 3 200 