jodiumyiyofegqtcqasgzoeaiodkgedssmsqkklo length 5 62056 page 3281 Geography C‑class Low‑importance Geography portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Geography, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of geography on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.GeographyWikipedia:WikiProject GeographyTemplate:WikiProject Geographygeography articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale. WikiProject Geography To-do list: Here are some tasks awaiting attention: Article requests : See Requested articles/Social sciences/Geography, cities, regions and named places and Missing articles about Locations Assess : Tag related article talk pages with {{WikiProject Geography}}. To help assess the quality and importance of geography articles, please see: Unassessed geography articles and Unknown-importance geography articles. Cleanup : See Geography articles needing attention Deletion sorting : Listed at Geographic related deletion discussions Geographical coordinates : See Articles missing geocoordinate data by country Infobox : See Geography articles needing infoboxes Map : See Wikipedia requested maps Notability : See Geography articles with topics of unclear notability Photo : See Wikipedia requested photographs of places Stubs : See Geography stubs Text and/or other creative content from this version of Geographic coordinate system was copied or moved into Vertical datum. The former page's history now serves to provide attribution for that content in the latter page, and it must not be deleted so long as the latter page exists. Data and datums[edit] I found (where my italicising distinguishes what Germans may call eine Mischung" (mixture), or if I recall correctly, "ein Mischwort"; in any case, commonly adopted criteria for '!vertical datums include the following approaches: tidal, based on sea level at whichì specific conditions occur; gravimetric, based on a geoid; or geodetic, based on the same ellipsoid models of the Earth that are used in computing a horizontal datum. (It must be kept clear that those who write succeed (or fail to), at the task of elucidating their intent, when they utter that seemingly absurd construction, are neither knaves nor fools. So their mere absolution hardly suffices.) A fundamental paradox is that "datum" (at least in Latin) is a noun, singular as to number, but and also, that its plural is inevitably "data": significantly, the two languages' nouns are, respectively, plural, and mass nouns. And It matters very little how wise native speakers from Latia dealt with this conundrum. But the concept's true value lies not in an isolated datum, but in the relationships between and among (so called) "data points" (for the same reasons that vision so often provides good metaphors for comprehension -- alongside "grasping the point" -- a presumable invocation not of weaponry, but of the similarly precise points of view, that result from reaching effective locations and directions for looking into, and gaining insight about, "re-presenting" various things. JerzyA (talk) 04:52, 24 November 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply] contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:Vertical_datum responseCode 3 200 