jojexoeqksceoglsksfcrcxewkkmakmozmiokqrc length 6 320888 page 10012 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 31 January 2023 00:00, 31 January 2023 (UTC) William Nicholas ... that during the bloody siege of Badajoz, William Nicholas (pictured) was wounded by musket-ball and bayonet, but continued to give orders and was carried up the breach, only to be shot again? ... that David Bowie frequently updated the lyrics for his song "Young Americans" to keep them contemporary? ... that in 1991, Juan López Mella was the first Spanish rider to achieve a podium place in the Superbike World Championship? ... that after complaints of A Pickle for the Knowing Ones lacking punctuation, the author published a second edition with full pages of punctuation in the appendix? ... that in 1998, the Mercedes-Benz CLK GTR received the Guinness World Record for the most expensive production car? ... that the 1995 dedication ceremony for the Faces of War Memorial included missing-man flyovers? ... that fossils are included in Polystoechotites due to being poorly fossilized, rather than due to relation? ... that politician Kalervo Kummola introduced karaoke to Finland? 30 January 2023 00:00, 30 January 2023 (UTC) MacCharlie ... that the release of the MacCharlie (pictured)—an IBM PC that clipped onto the side of the original Macintosh—nearly bankrupted Dayna Communications in 1985? ... that Indian Carnatic music vocalist R. K. Padmanabha teaches group singing predominantly to women? ... that a targeting penalty that caused the disqualification of an Arkansas player during overtime of the 2022 Liberty Bowl was overturned by the NCAA the next day? ... that Fernando Cajías, who belongs to the first generation of professional historians in Bolivia, composed part of history academia's "Mirista wing"? ... that a mercury spill occurred at Agua Fria High School when students discovered and started playing with an unsecured supply of the element? ... that industrial designer Cesar Vergara started designing trains because he "thought most were awful looking"? ... that the Three Tuns, a 17th-century pub in Alcester, has been left roofless since a 2021 fire? ... that Solihin G. P. was anecdotally asleep when he was announced as the commander of the Hasanuddin Military Region? 29 January 2023 00:00, 29 January 2023 (UTC) Diana and Endymion ... that Madonna could be the owner of a French painting believed to have been destroyed in World War I (pictured)? ... that the Phoenixonian Institute was the first African-American high school in California? ... that Oscar Ortiz continued his 2019 presidential campaign even after his own running mate asked him to withdraw? ... that of up to 300 bullets fired in the Ash Street shootout between U.S. Army Rangers and alleged drug dealers, none were reported to have hit anyone? ... that before Paul Goodman became known for his views on education, he wrote an autobiographical novel about a teacher's sexual relationship with his student? ... that Piotr Sierzputowski and Tomasz Wiktorowski each coached Iga Świątek to win a French Open title? ... that the đàn tre uses an olive oil can to make music? 28 January 2023 00:00, 28 January 2023 (UTC) Laura Bergt Eskimo-kissing Spiro Agnew ... that Laura Bergt was said to have gained millions of acres of land for Native Alaskans by Eskimo-kissing Vice President Spiro Agnew (pictured)? ... that when Nashville's Eighth Avenue South Reservoir ruptured in 1912, one family was swept away while still lying in bed? ... that when Brigadier Leonard Parrington ordered Sergeant Jack Hinton to surrender, Hinton told Parrington to "go and jump in the bloody lake"? ... that the demolition of the Shrine of Husayn's Head, probably the most important Shi'a Muslim shrine in Israel, may have been related to efforts to transfer Palestinians out of the country? ... that as a last-minute substitute in a premiere performance at Oper Frankfurt, Elena Manistina sang from the side while the assistant director mimed onstage? ... that the agent at 14th Place station was the target of an attempted murder? ... that although he was a former Indonesian prime minister, Soekiman Wirjosandjojo was not arrested during a political purge as he was considered a non-threat? ... that the now-drained lake Tarn Wadling was famous as a liminal place where the spectre of Guinevere's dead mother appeared to her and Gawain in The Awntyrs off Arthure? 27 January 2023 00:00, 27 January 2023 (UTC) Passing Mother's Grave ... that the painting Passing Mother's Grave (pictured) by Jozef Israëls was his best-known work, and was made into a bronze sculpture after his death? ... that David Burbank, a dentist, founded Burbank, California? ... that Arab troops under King Faisal missed the 24 January 1917 capture of Wejh by two days because they had been celebrating the capture of £20,000 in gold? ... that the Daughters of the American Revolution opposed Marjorie Lynch's nomination to a government post due to her birth in Britain? ... that the New Beehive Inn in Bradford, England, was "a rare example of a public house built by a local authority"? ... that during Matt Lanter's audition for Star Wars: The Clone Wars, he was told that he was going to play Deak Starkiller even though he was actually going to play Anakin Skywalker? ... that the Sangage Sheikhdom was the last holdout of native Swahili resistance to Portuguese colonization in northern Mozambique? ... that author John Neal said reading too much of Logan would kill you? 26 January 2023 00:00, 26 January 2023 (UTC) 1946 Romanian propaganda poster ... that Soviet-trained commissar Dumitru Petrescu supervised propaganda (example pictured) aimed at purging a "nest of reactionaries" out of the Romanian Army? ... that the case Lewis Galoob Toys, Inc. v. Nintendo of America, Inc. was considered essential to the future of video game modding in the United States in 1992? ... that Louis Pasteur's 1859 experiment is widely seen as having disproved the theory of spontaneous generation? ... that, before same-sex unions were legally recognised in the UK, the London Partnership Register allowed nearly 1,000 couples to celebrate their relationships? ... that modern sources believe that the first Catilinarian conspiracy was fake? ... that Kuchipudi exponent Maddali Usha Gayatri choreographed a 12-hour ballet that was performed by a troupe involving 12 of her disciples? ... that employees claimed to have temporarily shut down an Arkansas radio station over not receiving paychecks? ... that in a tennis match against Stefanos Tsitsipas, Daniil Medvedev called the umpire "a small cat"? 25 January 2023 12:00, 25 January 2023 (UTC) Polish National Ballet dancers in Concerto Barocco ... that although George Balanchine incorporated jazz dance-inspired choreography in his ballet Concerto Barocco (pictured), those elements are now gone? ... that Amdek Corporation, a popular manufacturer of computer monitors in the 1980s, started out as a reseller of car radio components? ... that before pursuing a career in music, Lauren Jenkins was the host of a wrestling television show? ... that the manga series Sora ga Suki! depicted two male characters kissing each other although it was a taboo for manga in the 1970s? ... that the 2020 Colonial Pipeline oil spill was discovered by two teenagers? ... that W. A. F. J. Tumbelaka once expelled his children from the University of Indonesia after they failed to pass an evaluation? ... that three blocks near Stampede Park were transformed int contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 73 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2023/January responseCode 3 200 