jojexargfoqcuamawqwmtmfcrcckpkjinsgmeseq length 6 213094 page 10015 English Wikipedia policy This page documents an English Wikipedia policy. It describes a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus. Shortcuts WP:IUP WP:IMAGEPOL This page in a nutshell: Be very careful when uploading copyrighted images, fully describe images' origins and copyright details on their description pages, and try to make images as useful and reusable as possible. Content policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Article titles Biographies of living persons Image use policy What Wikipedia is not v t e This page sets out the policies towards images—including format, content, and copyright issues—applicable on the English-language Wikipedia. For information on media in general (images, sound files, etc.), see Help:Creation and usage of media files. For information on uploading, see Wikipedia:Uploading images, or go directly to Special:Upload. For other legal and copyright policies, see Wikipedia:List of policies § Legal. Identifying usable images Copyright and licensing Shortcuts WP:IUP#COPYRIGHT WP:IUPC Before you upload an image, make sure that the image falls in one of the four categories: Own work: You own all rights to the image, usually meaning that you created it entirely yourself. In case of a photograph or screenshot, you must also own the copyright for all copyright-protected items (e.g. statue or app) that appear in it (example, see below for details). Freely licensed: You can prove that the copyright holder has released the image under an acceptable free license (example, see below for details). Note that images that are licensed for use only on Wikipedia, or only for non-commercial or educational use, or under a license that doesn't allow for the creation of modified/derived works, are unsuitable. Important note: just because you did not have to pay money for the image does not mean that it is "free content" or acceptable for use on Wikipedia. The vast majority of images on the internet are copyrighted and cannot be used here – even if there is not a copyright notice, it is automatically copyrighted from the moment of creation. When in doubt, do not upload copyrighted images. Public domain: You can prove that the image is in the public domain, i.e. free of all copyrights (example, see below for details). Fair use/non-free: You believe that the image meets the special conditions for non-free content, which exceptionally allow the use of unlicensed material, and you can provide an explicit non-free use rationale explaining why and how you intend to use it (example, see below for details). User-created images Wikipedia encourages users to upload their own images. All user-created images must be licensed under a free license, such as a Creative Commons license, or released into the public domain, which removes all copyright and licensing restrictions. When licensing an image, it is common practice to multi-license under both GFDL and a Creative Commons license. Photographs Such images can include photographs which you yourself took. The legal rights for images generally lie with the photographer, not the subject. Simply re-tracing a copyrighted image or diagram does not necessarily create a new copyright—copyright is generated only by instances of "creativity", and not by the amount of labor which went into the creation of the work. Photographs of two-dimensional objects such as paintings in a museum often do not create a new copyright (see the section on the public domain below), as, within the United States, these are considered "slavish copies" without any creativity (see Bridgeman Art Library v. Corel Corp.). Photographs of three-dimensional objects almost always generate a new copyright, though others may continue to hold copyright in items depicted in such photographs. Whether the photo carries the copyright of the object photographed depends on numerous factors. For three-dimensional art and architecture such as buildings in public spaces, each country has unique freedom of panorama allowances that consider if such photographs are treated as derivative works of the object and thus copyrighted; Commons:Freedom of panorama outlines these clauses per jurisdiction. The shape and design of utilitarian objects, such as cars, furniture, and tools, are generally considered uncopyrightable, allowing such photos to be put into the public domain or freely licensed; however this does not extend to decorative features such as artistic elements on the object's surfaces like an artistic painting on a car's hood. If you have questions in respect to this, please ask the regulars at Wikipedia talk:Copyrights. Images with you, friends or family prominently featured in a way that distracts from the image topic are not recommended for the main namespace. These images are considered self-promotion and the Wikipedia community has repeatedly reached consensus to delete such images. Using such images on user pages is allowed. Some images may contain trademarked logos incidentally (or purposely if the image is either freely licensed, covered under freedom of panorama, or being too simple to be copyrightable). If this is the case, please tag it with {{trademark}}. Copyrighted elements may also be present in de minimis in photographs, where the copyrighted element is visible but not the focus of the photograph. In such cases, de minimis copyrighted elements do not affect the copyright of the photograph; such a photo may still be licensed freely. For example, a photograph of Times Square can be considered free despite the numerous advertising signs in sight, as these ads are considered to be de minimis. Diagrams and other images User-made images can also include the recreation of graphs, charts, drawings, and maps directly from available data, as long as the user-created format does not mimic the exact style of the original work. Technical data is uncopyrightable, lacking creativity, but the presentation of data in a graph or chart can be copyrighted, so a user-made version should be sufficiently different in presentation from the original to remain free. In such cases, it is required to include verification of the source(s) of the original data when uploading such images. See, for example File:Painted Turtle Distribution alternate.svg, File:Conventional 18-wheeler truck diagram.svg. Additionally, user-made images may be wholly original. In such cases, the image should be primarily serving an educational purpose, and not as a means of self-promotion of the user's artistic skills. The subject to be illustrated should be clearly identifiable in context, and should not be overly stylized. See for example File:Checker shadow illusion.svg. When making user-made diagrams or similar images, try not to use color alone to convey information, as it is inaccessible in many situations. Free licenses There are several licenses that meet the definition of "free" here. Several Creative Commons (CC) license alternatives are available. Licenses which restrict the use of the media to non-profit or educational purposes only (i.e. non-commercial use only), or which are given permission to appear only on Wikipedia, are not free enough for Wikipedia's usages or goals and will be deleted.[1] In short, Wikipedia media (with the exception of "fair use" media—see below) should be as "free" as Wikipedia's content—both to keep Wikipedia's own legal status secure and to allow as much re-use of Wikipedia content as possible. For example, Wikipedia can accept images under CC-BY-SA (Attribution-Share Alike) as a free license, but not CC-BY-SA-NC (Attribution-Share Alike-Non-Commercial). A list of possible licenses which are considered "free enough" for Wikipedia are listed at Wikipedia:Image copyright tags. A list of websites that offer free images can be found at Wikipedia:Free image resources. If the place where you found the image does not declare a pre-existing free license, yet allows use of its content under terms commonly instituted by them, it must explicitly declare that commercial use and modification is permitted. If it does not so declare, you must assume that you may not use the image unless you obtain verification or permission from the copyright holder. GNU Free Documentation License The GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) is not permitted as the only acceptable license where all of the following are true:[2] The content was licensed on or after 1 August 2021. The licensing date is considered, not the creation or upload date. The content is primarily a photograph, painting, drawing, audio or video. The content is not a software logo, diagram or screenshot that is extracted from a GFDL software manual. GFDL content may still be usable under the non-free content policy. If a work that is not a derivative work with a GFDL license is used under a non-free rationale it does not have to be scaled down, but other non-free limitations will still apply. Public domain Further information: Wikipedia:Public domain and Wikipedia:Public domain image resources Public domain images are not copyrighted, and copyright law does not restrict their use in any way. Wikipedia pages, including non-English language pages, are hosted on a server in the United States, so US law governs whether a Wikipedia image is in the public domain. Images may be placed into the public domain by their creators, or they may be public domain because they are ineligible for copyright or because their copyright expired. In the US as of January 1, 2023, copyright has expired on any work published anywhere before January 1, 1928. Although US copyrights have also expired for many works published since then, the rules for determining expiration are complex; see When does copyright expire? for details. In the US, reproductions of two-dimensional public domain artwork do not generate a new copyright; see Bridgeman v. Corel. Scans of images alone do not generate new copyrights—they merely  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Image_use_policy responseCode 3 200 