jolquieggqbctavmygyioqnchkvopazgronexggs length 6 256505 page 10009 Guidance on the proper use of the categorization function in Wikipedia "WP:CATEGORY" and "WP:CAT" redirect here. You may be looking for Wikipedia:Contents/Categories (a list of top-level categories), WikiProject Cats, Wikipedia:HotCat, WikiProject Categories, or even Wikipedia:WikiCat. For the category system itself, see Category:Contents. "WP:CG" redirects here. For the internal project on computer-generated imagery, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Computer graphics. This page documents an English Wikipedia editing guideline. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page. Shortcuts WP:CAT WP:CATEGORY WP:MOSCAT Wikipedia guidelines Guidelines list Policies list Behavioral Assume good faith Conflict of interest Courtesy vanishing Disruptive editing Don't bite the newcomers Don't disrupt to make a point Etiquette Gaming the system User pages Other behavioral guidelines WMF friendly space policy Discussions Talk page guidelines Signatures Content Citing sources External links Reliable sources medicine Fringe theories Non-free content Offensive material Don't copy long texts Don't create hoaxes Patent nonsense Other content guidelines Editing Article size Be bold Edit summary Understandability Other editing guidelines Organization Categories, lists, templates Categorization Disambiguation Style Manual of Style contents lists tables Deletion Deletion process Speedy keep Deletion guidelines for administrators Project content Project pages WikiProjects Templates User pages User boxes Shortcuts Subpages Other Naming conventions Notability v t e For information on the mechanics of the function, category syntax, etc., see Help:Category. For quick answers, see Wikipedia:FAQ/Categorization. This page contains guidance on the proper use of the categorization function in Wikipedia. The central goal of the category system is to provide navigational links to pages in Wikipedia, in a hierarchy of categories which readers, knowing essential—defining—characteristics of a topic, can browse and quickly find sets of pages on topics that are defined by those characteristics. For proposals to delete, merge, or rename categories, follow the instructions at Categories for discussion. Please use it before undertaking any complicated re-categorization of existing categories or mass creation of new categories. Naming conventions Further information: Wikipedia:Category names This section is transcluded from Wikipedia:Categorization/Naming. (edit | history) When naming a category, one should be particularly careful and choose its name accurately. Moving non-conventionally categorized pages to another category name (see {{Category redirect}}) imposes an additional overhead – an edit for each article and subcategory. Also, try to avoid names that are too long or too short. Short, straight-forward names, are preferred for categories, though it may be necessary at times to deviate from this principle for clarity or disambiguation. General conventions Names of topic categories should be singular, normally corresponding to the name of a Wikipedia article. Examples: "Law", "France", "Hillary Clinton". Names of set categories should be plural. Examples: "Writers", "Villages in Poland". Note that in many instances a topic category and a set category have similar names, the topic category being singular and the set category plural. For example, Opera is a topic category (containing all articles relating to the topic), while Operas is a set category (containing articles about specific operas). Be careful to choose the right one when categorizing articles. Do not write the category structure in names. Example: "Monarchs", not "People – Monarchs". This includes creating categories that are subpages of other categories. Choose category names that can stand alone, independent of the way a category is connected to other categories. Example: "Geography terminology stubs", not "Terminology" (a subcategory of "Geography stubs"). Categories for articles Standard article naming conventions apply; in particular, use sentence case, do not use title case. Specifically, do not capitalize regular nouns except when they come at the beginning of the category name. When naming, use words and phrases which exist in verifiable reliable sources (particularly for technical subjects), so that those sources may be used to support inclusion of information. Avoid abbreviations. Example: "Category:Military equipment of World War II", not "Category:Military equipment of WW2". However, acronyms that have become the official, or generally used, name (such as NATO) should be used where there are no other conflicts. Exceptions to this should be explained in the category description. Avoid subjective adjectives such as famous, large, or beautiful in category titles. When a topic requires disambiguation, any category eponymously named for that topic should include the same form of disambiguation, even if no other articles are likely to have an eponymous category. If there are more than a few lists in a particular subject area, it may be appropriate to create a category for them (for example, "Category:Lists of countries"). Such categories should only contain list pages (for example "List of Soviet Republics", "List of countries by population"). When placing pages in such a category, use a sort key that excludes the phrase "List of" (otherwise all lists would appear under "L"). See also Category:Lists. Naming guidelines for sub-categories of Category:Stub categories are listed at Wikipedia:WikiProject Stub sorting/Naming guidelines#Categories. Project categories Categories used for Wikipedia administration, are disambiguated by prepending with the word "Wikipedia" (no colon) if this is needed to prevent confusion with content categories. For example, Category:Inactive project pages (where no confusion is likely), but Category:Wikipedia tools (as distinct from the content category Tools). All WikiProject categories should have "WikiProject" (or "WikiProjects") as part of the name. Note that this does not apply to the names of categories that projects might create for the use of assessments. In these cases, the advice given in Project Categories, which conforms to Category:Wikipedia 1.0 assessments is advised, though not mandatory. For geographical photo requests, the category name should be "Wikipedia requested photographs in xxx" as in [[Category:Wikipedia requested photographs in England]]; see Category:Wikipedia requested photographs by location. For categorization in userspace, see Wikipedia:Categorization#User namespace and Wikipedia:User categories#Naming conventions. Creating category pages Shortcut WP:CREATECAT Further information: Help:Category See also: Wikipedia:HotCat Before creating a new category Shortcut WP:BEFORECAT Main pages: Wikipedia:Categories, lists, and series boxes and Wikipedia:Overcategorization See also: Help:Sortable tables Categories are not the only means of enabling users to browse sets of related pages. And categories have several disadvantages, including: Categories only list the name of a page. And individual category members cannot be annotated with descriptions or comments, so they give no context or elaboration for any specific entry. There is no provision for referencing any specific entry, to verify a topic meets a category's criteria of inclusion. So, consider whether a list would be more appropriate for such a grouping of pages. Lists would also be more useful where it is important to see dates, for example, a list of Nobel laureates. And can provide options for sorting the entries. Also, consider whether the category might be considered category clutter. Please see Wikipedia:Overcategorization, for more information on this. Choosing a name for the category Main page: Wikipedia:Naming conventions (categories) See also: § Naming conventions A good category name is neutral, and as much as possible, defines the category inclusion criteria in the name itself. Important: When choosing a name for the category, please be sure a similar category does not exist. For example: You might want to add a sub-category for people to Category:Mexicans. Before creating that category, try to find it under a similar name. By starting at Category:People by nationality, you will discover that Mexicans are placed in Category:Mexican people. Note: #Eponymous categories (categories whose name and topic is the same as an article, such as a category named after a person) should only be created if sufficient directly-related articles exist. Creating the category After you have determined an appropriate category name for the category, next try to find a suitable place for the new category. (For example, categories of people should be in the tree of "people" categories.) Please see #Category tree organization for more information on this. Once you have determined where to categorize this new category, you should be ready to create the new category. To create a category, Add a page to the intended category. Do this by editing that page: At the bottom, but before the interwiki links (if any are present), add the name of the new category, (e.g.: [[Category:New category name]] ) Save your edit. The as-yet-undefined category name will now appear as a red link in the category list at the bottom of the page. Next, click on that red link, which brings you to the new category page to create. Finally, at the bottom of the page, simply add the parent category (e.g.: [[Category:Parent category name]] ), which should usually be a hypernym of the sub-category. This will add the new category into the appropriate parent category. * If something goes wrong, double check to see if you followed the steps properly and check if the wikitext is correct. For example, if the category fails to list in the parent category, the wikitext contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 58 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Categorization responseCode 3 200 