jqlkreksfowosqbgwizgtmjkrqdgeioqlawirsio length 6 268665 page 10003 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 30 September 2021 00:00, 30 September 2021 (UTC) Broken Circle/Spiral Hill in 2021 ... that the artist Robert Smithson suggested that the boulder in the center of his piece Broken Circle/Spiral Hill (pictured) was a "warning from the Ice Age"? ... that the 1911 fire at the New York State Capitol destroyed over 700,000 items held by the New York State Library, creating a "hole in [New York's] cultural heritage"? ... that a 15-year-old boy died after falling from the top of a 142-foot high (43 m) mast? ... that Richard McGeagh did not receive a gold medal, even though he set an Olympic record in the 4×100 metre medley relay at the 1964 Olympics? ... that the winner of the men's race at the 2004 London Marathon fell during the race on cobblestones? ... that Saul Soliz was known as "the godfather of Texas MMA"? ... that the Morowali Industrial Park is the largest center of nickel industry in Indonesia, the world's top nickel producer? ... that Dinah John was one of an estimated fifteen Native American women from New York state to serve in the War of 1812? 29 September 2021 00:00, 29 September 2021 (UTC) James McDivitt ... that astronaut James McDivitt saw a UFO during his first spaceflight? ... that the defendants in the Racism-Turanism trials between 1944 and 1947 were absolved because racism was not contrary to the Turkish constitution? ... that civil rights activist Bob Zellner was arrested at least 25 times and severely beaten on several occasions for his activism? ... that Queen Elizabeth II sat for Ben Enwonwu on twelve occasions as he created his sculpture of her? ... that Jay-Z was re-added to "Jail" by Kanye West after initially being replaced with DaBaby? ... that Jan Hecker influenced the foreign policy of Angela Merkel? ... that the 1992 championship of Vince McMahon's World Bodybuilding Federation consisted of "two of the silliest hours in the history of live sports"? ... that "why" is the only lyric of "Why"? 28 September 2021 00:00, 28 September 2021 (UTC) Monika Salzer ... that Monika Salzer, a systematic psychotherapist and Protestant pastor, was a columnist for the Kronen Zeitung and appeared on television in Dancing Stars? ... that while The Gods from Outer Space has eight volumes, only four were published in English? ... that rebel leader and later Ugandan president Yoweri Museveni had to walk 19 kilometres (12 mi) and borrow a car before the Battle of Kabamba because his pickup truck had broken down? ... that Lori Gramlich, a survivor of sexual abuse in her childhood, introduced legislation that made it easier for sexual abuse survivors in Maine to file civil lawsuits against their abusers? ... that the crane shots at the end of the opening sequence for the WandaVision episode "On a Very Special Episode..." were added as an homage to Full House? ... that all 256 places at the 2021 U.S. Open Pool Championship were filled within 10 hours? ... that Turkey's Anadolu Shipyard signed a contract with India's Hindustan Shipyard to transfer technology for the building of five fleet support ships for the Indian Navy? ... that in their book about molybdenum, American chemists Arthur Linz and David H. Killeffer complained that previous works included the true and the false, the probable and the fantastic? 27 September 2021 00:00, 27 September 2021 (UTC) Canadian Police and Peace Officers' Memorial ... that the Canadian Police and Peace Officers' Memorial (pictured) had to be redesigned after six years to accommodate more names? ... that when acting in HBO television series Big Little Lies, Darby Camp received suggestions from Reese Witherspoon, who plays her onscreen mother? ... that Dorans Lane in Liverpool is named after Felix Doran, who "seems to cling ghost-like to the area"? ... that 80 acres (32 ha) of Hog Island were farmland in 1923, but only 15 acres (6 ha) were above water in 1974? ... that Impa is one of the oldest characters in Nintendo's The Legend of Zelda series? ... that the WandaVision episode "We Interrupt This Program" was pitched like an episode of CSI, deviating from the sitcom genre of preceding episodes? ... that Royal Navy officer John Wells managed to escape the Nore mutiny through a gun port in his ship, returning later to accept the mutineers' surrender? ... that during Tag des offenen Denkmals, Germany's largest annual cultural event, thousands of historic monuments are opened for free? 26 September 2021 12:00, 26 September 2021 (UTC) Schlosspark Biebrich ... that Schlosspark Biebrich (pictured), the garden at a former residence of the Duchy of Nassau on the Rhine, is the venue of the Internationales Pfingstturnier Wiesbaden? ... that Eric Berger wrote about weather for the Houston Chronicle even before he became a certified meteorologist? ... that Poles who fought in the Russian Partition during the January Uprising were detained as political prisoners in Magdeburg and Graudenz, Prussia, even though the uprising never crossed the border? ... that Haripriya Banoth is the youngest member of the Telangana Legislative Assembly? ... that Elizabeth Olsen and Paul Bettany wore comic-book-accurate Scarlet Witch and Vision Halloween costumes in the WandaVision episode "All-New Halloween Spooktacular!"? ... that research for the Cambridge Greek Lexicon was planned to last five years but was only completed after twenty-three? ... that Faith No More's "Digging the Grave" was featured on both Beavis and Butt-Head and Top of the Pops? ... that Lydia Wevers was the first scholar to write about the history of short stories in New Zealand? 00:00, 26 September 2021 (UTC) Remains of the Musalla complex ... that most of the Timurid 15th-century Musalla complex (remains pictured) was destroyed in 1885 by the British and the Emir of Afghanistan, Abdul Rahman Khan? ... that each of the three times Fox Island exploded, shockwaves could be felt dozens of miles away? ... that Anna Apostolaki, the first Greek woman to work as a professional archaeologist, was also a feminist educator who promoted women's traditional crafts? ... that the social golfer problem is used to assign groups in classrooms to maximize student interaction? ... that sportswriter Matt Zabitka started his career at the age of 13? ... that Windsor Gardens station was built to serve a single apartment complex? ... that playwright Carol K. Mack wrote the thriller novel The Chameleon Variant in 1980 with Rutgers University biologist David Ehrenfeld? ... that Tlalli will replace a monument to Christopher Columbus, not to "erase history", but to "deliver social justice"? 25 September 2021 12:00, 25 September 2021 (UTC) HMS Caroline, painted by Thomas Buttersworth ... that Admiral Benjamin William Page was tasked with announcing the start of the Napoleonic Wars to the East Indies, using HMS Caroline (pictured)? ... that the music for the video game Rings of Power was composed by a first-year medical student? ... that Jean-Paul Jeannotte, founder and first artistic director of the Opéra de Montréal, performed the role of Bobino more than 100 times, in the premiere on CBC TV and on stages on a Canada tour? ... that according to Christopher Bollen, much of his 2020 novel A Beautiful Crime was written in a 17th-century monastery? ... that the small island of Aruba was at the Paralympics because Shardea Arias de la Cru thought they should be? ... that the Sawmill Fire of 2017, which burned more than 45,000 acres (18,000 ha), was started at a gender reveal party? ... that Park Chan-dea is the only male wushu athlete to be a six-time world champion? ... that Washingto contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 75 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2021/September responseCode 3 200 