jqnohghqzchqecwmfqscmkuadmlodoosusdmpgts length 6 677954 page 10024 American diplomat and activist (1884–1962) For other uses, see Eleanor Roosevelt (disambiguation). "Anna E. Roosevelt" redirects here. For her daughter, see Anna Roosevelt Halsted. Eleanor Roosevelt Roosevelt in 1933 1st Chair of the Presidential Commission on the Status of Women In office January 20, 1961 – November 7, 1962 President John F. Kennedy Preceded by Office established Succeeded by Esther Peterson 1st United States Representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights In office January 27, 1947[1] – January 20, 1953[2] President Harry S. Truman Preceded by Office established Succeeded by Mary Pillsbury Lord 1st Chair of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights In office April 29, 1946[3] – December 30, 1952[4] Preceded by Office established Succeeded by Charles Malik First Lady of the United States In role March 4, 1933 – April 12, 1945 President Franklin D. Roosevelt Preceded by Lou Henry Hoover Succeeded by Bess Truman First Lady of New York In role January 1, 1929 – December 31, 1932 Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt Preceded by Catherine Smith Succeeded by Edith Lehman Personal details Born Anna Eleanor Roosevelt (1884-10-11)October 11, 1884 New York City, New York, U.S. Died November 7, 1962(1962-11-07) (aged 78) New York City, New York, U.S. Resting place Springwood Estate, Hyde Park, New York, U.S. Political party Democratic Spouse Franklin D. Roosevelt (m. 1905; died 1945) Children 6, including Franklin, Anna, Elliott, James II, and John II Parents Elliott Roosevelt Anna Rebecca Hall Relatives Roosevelt family Signature Anna Eleanor Roosevelt (/ˈɛlɪnɔːr ˈroʊzəvɛlt/ EL-in-or ROH-zə-velt; October 11, 1884 – November 7, 1962) was an American political figure, diplomat, and activist.[5][6] She was the first lady of the United States from 1933 to 1945, during her husband President Franklin D. Roosevelt's four terms in office, making her the longest-serving first lady of the United States.[5] Through her travels, public engagement, and advocacy, she largely redefined the role of First Lady. Roosevelt then served as a United States Delegate to the United Nations General Assembly from 1945 to 1952, and in 1948 she was given a standing ovation by the assembly upon their adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.[7][8] President Harry S. Truman later called her the "First Lady of the World" in tribute to her human rights achievements.[9] Roosevelt was a member of the prominent American Roosevelt and Livingston families and a niece of President Theodore Roosevelt.[8] She had an unhappy childhood, having suffered the deaths of both parents and one of her brothers at a young age. At 15, she attended Allenswood Boarding Academy in London and was deeply influenced by its headmistress Marie Souvestre. Returning to the U.S., she married her fifth cousin once removed, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, in 1905. The Roosevelts' marriage was complicated from the beginning by Franklin's controlling mother, Sara, and after Eleanor discovered her husband's affair with Lucy Mercer in 1918, she resolved to seek fulfillment in leading a public life of her own. She helped persuade Franklin to stay in politics, even after he was stricken with a paralytic illness in 1921, which cost him the normal use of his legs, and she began giving speeches and appearing at campaign events in his place. Following Franklin's election as Governor of New York in 1928, and throughout the remainder of Franklin's public career in government, Roosevelt regularly made public appearances on his behalf; and as First Lady, while her husband served as president, she significantly reshaped and redefined the role. Though widely respected in her later years, Roosevelt was a controversial first lady at the time for her outspokenness, particularly on her promotion of civil rights for African-Americans. She was the first presidential spouse to hold regular press conferences, write a daily newspaper column, write a monthly magazine column, host a weekly radio show, and speak at a national party convention. On a few occasions, she publicly disagreed with her husband's policies. She launched an experimental community at Arthurdale, West Virginia, for the families of unemployed miners, later widely regarded as a failure. She advocated for expanded roles for women in the workplace, the civil rights of African Americans and Asian Americans, and the rights of World War II refugees. Following her husband's death in 1945, Roosevelt remained active in politics for the remaining 17 years of her life. She pressed the United States to join and support the United Nations and became its first delegate. She served as the first chair of the UN Commission on Human Rights and oversaw the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Later, she chaired the John F. Kennedy administration's Presidential Commission on the Status of Women. By the time of her death, Roosevelt was regarded as "one of the most esteemed women in the world"; The New York Times called her "the object of almost universal respect" in her obituary.[10] In 1999, she was ranked ninth in the top ten of Gallup's List of Most Widely Admired People of the 20th Century,[11] and was found to rank as the most admired woman in thirteen different years between 1948 and 1961 in Gallup's annual most admired woman poll.[12] Periodic surveys conducted by the Siena College Research Institute have consistently seen historians assess Roosevelt as the greatest American first lady. Personal life Early life Roosevelt as a child, 1887 Anna Eleanor Roosevelt was born on October 11, 1884, in Manhattan, New York City,[13][14] to socialites Anna Rebecca Hall and Elliott Roosevelt.[15] From an early age she preferred to be called by her middle name, Eleanor. Through her father, she was a niece of President Theodore Roosevelt. Through her mother, she was a niece of tennis champions Valentine Gill "Vallie" Hall III and Edward Ludlow Hall. Her mother nicknamed her "Granny" because she acted in such a serious manner as a child.[16] Anna emotionally rejected Eleanor and was also somewhat ashamed of her daughter's alleged "plainness".[16] Roosevelt had two younger brothers: Elliott Jr. and Hall. She also had a half-brother, Elliott Roosevelt Mann, through her father's affair with Katy Mann, a servant employed by the family.[17] Roosevelt was born into a world of immense wealth and privilege, as her family was part of New York high society called the "swells".[18] On May 19, 1887, the two-year-old Roosevelt was on board the SS Britannic with her father, mother and aunt Tissie, when it collided with White Star Liner SS Celtic. She was lowered into a lifeboat and she and her parents were taken to the Celtic and returned to New York. After this traumatic event, Eleanor was afraid of ships and the sea all her life.[19] Her mother died from diphtheria on December 7, 1892, and Elliott Jr. died of the same disease the following May.[20] Her father, an alcoholic confined to a sanitarium, died on August 14, 1894, after jumping from a window during a fit of delirium tremens. He survived the fall but died from a seizure.[21] Roosevelt's childhood losses left her prone to depression throughout her life.[21] Her brother Hall later suffered from alcoholism.[22] Before her father died, he implored her to act as a mother towards Hall, and it was a request she made good upon for the rest of Hall's life. Roosevelt doted on Hall, and when he enrolled at Groton School in 1907, she accompanied him as a chaperone. While he was attending Groton, she wrote him almost daily, but always felt a touch of guilt that Hall had not had a fuller childhood. She took pleasure in Hall's brilliant performance at school, and was proud of his many academic accomplishments, which included a master's degree in engineering from Harvard.[23] School photo of 14-year-old Roosevelt, 1898 After the deaths of her parents, Roosevelt was raised in the household of her maternal grandmother, Mary Livingston Ludlow Hall of the Livingston family in Tivoli, New York.[21] As a child, she was insecure and starved for affection, and considered herself the "ugly duckling".[18] However, Roosevelt wrote at 14 that one's prospects in life were not totally dependent on physical beauty: "no matter how plain a woman may be if truth and loyalty are stamped upon her face all will be attracted to her."[24] Roosevelt was tutored privately and with the encouragement of her aunt Anna "Bamie" Roosevelt, she was sent to Allenswood Academy at the age of 15, a private finishing school in Wimbledon, London, England,[25] where she was educated from 1899 to 1902. The headmistress, Marie Souvestre, was a noted educator who sought to cultivate independent thinking in young women. Souvestre took a special interest in Roosevelt, who learned to speak French fluently and gained self-confidence.[26] Roosevelt and Souvestre maintained a correspondence until March 1905, when Souvestre died, and after this Roosevelt placed Souvestre's portrait on her desk and brought her letters with her.[26] Roosevelt's first cousin Corinne Douglas Robinson, whose first term at Allenswood overlapped with Roosevelt's last, said that when she arrived at the school, Roosevelt was " 'everything' at the school. She was beloved by everybody."[27] Roosevelt wished to continue at Allenswood, but she was summoned home by her grandmother in 1902 to make her social debut.[26] At age 17 in 1902, Roosevelt completed her formal education and returned to the United States; she was presented at a debutante ball at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel on December 14. She was later given her own "coming out party".[28] She said of her debut in a public discussion once, "It was simply awful. It was a beautiful party, of course, but I was so unhappy, because a girl who comes out is so utterly miserable if she does not know all the young people. Of course I had been so long abroad that I had lost touch with all the girls I used to know in N contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Eleanor_Roosevelt responseCode 3 200 