jqsidolezklitqpqrccmaovoycwefkrkikpmpscc length 6 816430 page 10058 The contentious topics procedure applies to this page. This page is related to India, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, which has been designated as a contentious topic. Editors who repeatedly or seriously fail to adhere to the purpose of Wikipedia, any expected standards of behaviour, or any normal editorial process may be blocked or restricted by an administrator. Editors are advised to familiarise themselves with the contentious topics procedures before editing this page. This article is written in British English, which has its own spelling conventions (colour, travelled, centre, defence, artefact, analyse) and some terms that are used in it may be different or absent from other varieties of English. According to the relevant style guide, this should not be changed without broad consensus. This article was nominated for deletion. Please review the prior discussions if you are considering re-nomination: keep, June 29, 2013, see discussion. delete, August 10, 2008, see discussion. This article is of interest to the following WikiProjects: Cricket C‑class High‑importance Cricket portal This article is part of WikiProject Cricket which aims to expand and organise information better in articles related to the sport of cricket. Please participate by visiting the project and talk pages for more details.CricketWikipedia:WikiProject CricketTemplate:WikiProject Cricketcricket articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. High This article has been rated as High-importance on the project's importance scale. This article has been marked as needing immediate attention. WikiProject Cricket To-do list: edit history watch purge Article assessment Check Category:Unassessed cricket articles for class and Category:Unknown-importance cricket articles for importance: see Assessment Department for details Verifiability Update fair and unfair play, fast bowling, first-class cricket, googly, innings, leg break, limited overs cricket, not out, Pakistan Cricket Board, spin bowling, underarm bowling, wicket, and other fundamental articles classified by the WikiProject as high-importance so that they meet WP:Verifiability policy standards Cleanup There is a toolserver based WikiProject Cricket cleanup list that automatically updates weekly to show all articles covered by this project which are marked with cleanup tags. (also available in one big list and in CSV format) Infoboxes Add infoboxes to the player articles found at Wikipedia:WikiProject Cricket/requested infoboxes Cricket people Create articles about 19th century players who are listed in Wikipedia:WikiProject Cricket/19th century players Create biographies about Bangladeshi players from the task force redlink list Check the listing of key bios at Wikipedia:WikiProject Cricket/Key biographies and improve these to at least B-class. Create batting/bowling graphs for cricketers who have excelled in international cricket. Create articles for redlinks present here and here Cricket teams & countries Domestic cricket coverage is needed for Bangladesh, Canada, Kenya, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe; Create articles from redlinks and improve existing articles in List of current first-class cricket teams; National cricket teams; Under-19 national cricket teams Create articles about cricket in these missing countries Create or expand articles on international tours from items in Wikipedia:WikiProject Cricket/summary of international tour articles Create a link as such on Template:Cr-Aus/doc for Cricket Australia XI Images Add pictures (and remove template from address requests) in these Category:Wikipedia requested images of cricket people Add pictures for grounds missing photos from here On this day in cricket Expand the anniversary coverage for Portal:Cricket at Portal:Cricket/Anniversaries Umpires Expand ICC International umpire panel; ICC Elite referee panel; ICC Associates and Affiliates umpire panel Women Expand Women's cricket, Women's Test cricket and articles about women's cricket generally especially biographies and tours Update A number of lists need to be updated, can be found in Template:International cricketers and Template:National cricket captains Regularly updating cricketers' career stats. Other Export all cricket terms present in List of cricket terms to Wiktionary India: Maharashtra / Mumbai C‑class High‑importance India portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject India, which aims to improve Wikipedia's coverage of India-related topics. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page.IndiaWikipedia:WikiProject IndiaTemplate:WikiProject IndiaIndia articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. High This article has been rated as High-importance on the project's importance scale. This article is supported by WikiProject Maharashtra (assessed as Low-importance). This article is supported by WikiProject Mumbai (assessed as Mid-importance). This article has been marked as needing immediate attention. Sports C‑class Sports portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Sports, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of sport-related topics on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.SportsWikipedia:WikiProject SportsTemplate:WikiProject Sportssports articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. To-do list: edit history watch purge Here are some tasks awaiting attention: Article requests : Requested articles (Sports) Requested articles (Association football) Requested articles (Association football women) Requested articles (Motor sports) Requested articles (Estonian sportspeople) Assess : newly added and existing articles, maybe nominate some good B-class articles for GA; independently assess some as A-class, regardless of GA status. Cleanup : * Sport governing body (this should-be-major article is in a shameful state) * Field hockey (History section needs sources and accurate information - very vague at the moment.) * Standardize Category:American college sports infobox templates to use same font size and spacing. * Sport in the United Kingdom - the Popularity section is incorrect and unsourced. Reliable data is required. * Fix project template and/or "to do list" Current version causes tables of content to be hidden unless/until reader chooses "show." Expand : Professional sports (crucial article explaining the salaried undertaking of sports) * Sport industry (currently a sub-stub) Photo : for pages listed in Category:Wikipedia requested images of sports and games and sub-categories. Stubs : work on articles in Category:Sports stubs Update : List of world sports championships Other : Translate the page of sport in each country from corresponding article in other language Wikipedia to English Wikipedia which was marked in red. Categorize: Gather all (major/olympic) sports to be part of this project RfCs: answer requests for comment On 20 July 2020, it was proposed that this article be moved from 2023 Cricket World Cup to 2023 ICC Men's Cricket World Cup. The result of the discussion was not moved. Requested move 20 July 2020[edit] The following is a closed discussion of a requested move. Please do not modify it. Subsequent comments should be made in a new section on the talk page. Editors desiring to contest the closing decision should consider a move review after discussing it on the closer's talk page. No further edits should be made to this discussion. The result of the move request was: not moved. Even though for different reasons, consensus is to stick with current naming. —usernamekiran (talk) 17:45, 30 July 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply] 2023 Cricket World Cup → 2023 ICC Men's Cricket World Cup Cricket World Cup → ICC Men's Cricket World Cup 2022 Cricket World Cup Qualifier → 2022 ICC Men's Cricket World Cup Qualifier 2023 Cricket World Cup Qualification → 2023 ICC Men's Cricket World Cup Qualification 2020–22 ICC Cricket World Cup Super League → 2020–22 ICC Men's Cricket World Cup Super League 2019–22 ICC Cricket World Cup League 2 → 2019–22 ICC Men's Cricket World Cup League 2 2022 ICC Cricket World Cup Play-Off → 2022 ICC Men's Cricket World Cup Play-Off History of the ICC Cricket World Cup → History of the ICC Men's Cricket World Cup List of Cricket World Cup finals → List of ICC Men's Cricket World Cup finals List of Cricket World Cup centuries → List of ICC Men's Cricket World Cup centuries – Criket World Cup's official name was ICC Cricket World Cup but in recent time ICC has disambiguated the tournament from Women's World Cup as ICC Men's Cricket World Cup along with its qualifying tournaments like ICC Men's Cricket World Cup League. And the existing articles are also inconsistent, half have ICC and half of them don't. Other sources also says such..1, 2. This is also consistent with the T20 World Cup articles, viz. ICC Men's T20 World Cup, 2021 ICC Men's T20 World Cup, 2022 ICC Men's T20 World Cup, 2019 ICC Men's T20 World Cup Qualifier, History of the ICC Men's T20 World Cup, 2021 ICC Men's T20 World Cup, List of ICC Men's T20 World Cup records, List of ICC Men's T20 World Cup centuries etc. Along with that I want to bring to your attention that when the T20 articles were moved it was also discussed here. Drat8sub (talk) 21:53, 20 July 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply] Note: The page move of Cricket World Cup was undone after the page moves were requested. Otherwise, Cricket World Cup would be my first article move request rather than 2023 Cricket World Cup as article 1. Drat8sub (talk) 18:21, 21 July 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply] Strong oppose on the 2023 Cricket World Cup, as it's the only Cricket World Cup in that year, and is currently consistent with all other 50 over World Cups. I'm ambivalent on the rest of them. Joseph2302 (talk) 22:16, 20 July 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply] 2023 Cricket World Cup is not official na contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:2023_Cricket_World_Cup responseCode 3 200 