kanqgkscoksqqozigaveqsyipsuctktaveiaiapm length 6 383140 page 10106 Autonomous community of Spain For other uses, see Aragon (disambiguation). Not to be confused with Argon or Aragorn. Autonomous community in Spain Aragon Aragón (Spanish) Aragón (Aragonese) Aragó (Catalan) Autonomous community Flag Coat of arms Anthem: Himno de Aragón (officially) Unofficial Anthem: "Canto a la libertad" Location of Aragon within Spain Coordinates: 41°00′N 1°00′W﻿ / ﻿41.000°N 1.000°W﻿ / 41.000; -1.000 Country Spain Capital Zaragoza Provinces Huesca, Teruel, and Zaragoza Government • President Jorge Azcón (PP) • Legislature Cortes of Aragon Area (9.4% of Spain; ranked 4th) • Total 47,720 km2 (18,420 sq mi) Population (1 January 2021) • Total 1,326,261 • Density 28/km2 (72/sq mi) • Pop. rank 11th • Percent 2.82% of Spain Demonym Aragonese ISO 3166 code ES-AR Official languages Spanish Recognised languages Aragonese • Catalan[1] Statute of Autonomy 16 August 1982 18 April 2007 (current version) National day 23 April Parliament Cortes of Aragon Congress seats 13 (of 350) Senate seats 14 (of 265) HDI (2021) 0.912[2] very high · 5th Website Gobierno de Aragón Aragon (/ˈærəɡən/ ARR-ə-gən, US also /-ɡɒn, -ɡoʊn/ -⁠gon, -⁠gohn;[3] Spanish and Aragonese: Aragón [aɾaˈɣon] ⓘ; Catalan: Aragó [əɾəˈɣo]) is an autonomous community in Spain, coextensive with the medieval Kingdom of Aragon. In northeastern Spain, the Aragonese autonomous community comprises three provinces (from north to south): Huesca, Zaragoza, and Teruel. Its capital is Zaragoza. The current Statute of Autonomy declares Aragon a historic nationality of Spain. Covering an area of 47720 km2 (18420 sq mi),[4] the region's terrain ranges diversely from permanent glaciers to verdant valleys, rich pasture lands and orchards, through to the arid steppes of the central lowlands. Aragon is home to many rivers—most notably, the river Ebro, Spain's largest river in volume, which runs west–east across the entire region through the province of Zaragoza. It is also home to the highest mountains of the Pyrenees. As of January 2021[update], the population of Aragon was 1326261,[5] with slightly over half living in the capital city, Zaragoza. In 2020, the economy of Aragon generated a GDP of €34687 million, which represents 3.1% of Spain's national GDP,[6] and is currently 6th in per capita production behind Madrid, Basque Country, Navarre, Catalonia and La Rioja.[7] In addition to its three provinces, Aragon is subdivided into 33 comarcas or counties. All comarcas of Aragon have a rich geopolitical and cultural history from its pre-Roman, Celtic and Roman days, four centuries of Islamic rule as Marca Superior of Al-Andalus or kingdom (or taifa) of Saraqusta, as lands that once belonged to the Frankish Marca Hispanica, counties that later formed the Kingdom of Aragon, and eventually the Crown of Aragon. Geography[edit] Location[edit] Hermitage of la Virgen de la Peña in Aniés, La Sotonera, province of Huesca The area of Aragon is 47720 km2 of which 15636 km2 belong to the province of Huesca, 17275 km2 to the province of Zaragoza and 14810 km2 to the province of Teruel.[4] The total represents a 9.43% of the surface of Spain, being thus the fourth autonomous community in size behind Castile and León, Andalusia, and Castile-La Mancha. It is located in the northeast of the Iberian Peninsula, at a latitude between 39º and 43º'N in the temperate zone. Its boundaries and borders are in the north with France (the regions of Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Occitanie), in the west with the autonomous communities of Castile-La Mancha (provinces of Guadalajara and Cuenca), Castile and León (province of Soria), La Rioja and Navarre, and in the east with the autonomous communities of Catalonia (provinces of Lérida and Tarragona) and the Valencian Community (provinces of Castellón and Valencia). Relief[edit] The orography of the community has as the central axis the Ebro valley (with heights between 150 and 300 meters approx.) which transits between two foothill areas, the Pyrenean and the Iberian, preambles of two mountain formations, the Pyrenees to the north and the Sistema Ibérico mountain range to the south; the Community has the highest peaks of both mountain ranges, the Aneto and the Moncayo respectively. Pyrenees[edit] Aneto peak is the highest point of all Pyrenees. It is located in the Posets–Maladeta Natural Park. El Turbón, emblematic mountain of Aragon The Aragonese Pyrenees are located in the north of the province of Huesca and are arranged longitudinally in three large units: High Pyrenees, Internal Depressions and Outer Ranges. The Aragonese High Pyrenees contains the maximum heights of all the Pyrenees mountainous chain. The High Pyrenees is formed in turn by the axial Pyrenees and the Inland Ranges. In the axial Pyrenees are the oldest materials: granites, quartzites, slates and limestones and the highest peaks like: the Aneto (3404 m), Maladeta (3309 m) and the Perdiguero (3221 m). The inner Pre-Pyrenees, composed of more modern rocks (limestones) also has large mountains such as Monte Perdido (3355 m), Collarada (2886 m) and Tendeñera (2853 m). La Besurta trail in the Benasque Pyrenean Valley Abbey of San Pedro de Siresa, monastic, political and cultural center of the ancient County of Aragon, where Alfonso I was educated. It is located in the Hecho Pyrenean Valley. The main Pyrenean valleys are formed by the rivers that are born there, which are: Ansó Valley: Veral river Hecho Valley: Aragón Subordán river Canfranc Valley: Aragón river Tena Valley: Gállego river Broto Valley: Ara river Aínsa Valley: Cinca river Pineta Valley: Cinca river Gistau Valley: Cinqueta river Benasque Valley: Ésera river The intrapirenaic depression is a broad perpendicular corridor. Its best represented section is the Canal de Berdún, which limits on the south with the reliefs of San Juan de la Peña (1552 m) and Oroel Rock (1769 m), modeled on conglomerates of the Campodarbe Formation. Mallos de Riglos conglomerate rock formations, in Las Peñas de Riglos The pre-Pyrenean outer ranges are in the Huescan foothills and constitute the southernmost unit of the Pyrenees; formed by predominantly calcareous materials, reach heights between 1500 and 2000 meters. The Sierra de Guara, one of the most important mountain ranges of the Spanish Pre-Pyrenees, stands out; its summit, the Guara Peak, reaches 2077 metres.[8] The Mallos de Riglos, near the town of Ayerbe, stand out for their beauty. Depression of the Ebro[edit] The Aragonese central depression includes a wide lowland area, which is also the central part of the Depression of the Ebro. North of the river there is the Sierra de Alcubierre ranges (811 m) one of the typical limestone plateaus of the valley. The Ebro Valley is a tectonic pit filled with sedimentary materials, accumulated in the Tertiary age in horizontal series. In the center, fine materials such as clays, plasters and limestones were deposited. To the south of the Ebro there are the limestone plateaus of Borja and of Zaragoza. Sistema Ibérico[edit] Moncayo Massif seen from Tarazona. Moncayo, with its height of 2314.3 m, is the maximum summit of the Sistema Ibérico mountainous chain. The Aragonese section of the Sistema Ibérico straddles the provinces of Zaragoza and Teruel. It is a set of hills without a clear structural unit, which can be divided into two zones: Sistema Ibérico del Jalón and Sistema Ibérico turolense. In the first, the Moncayo stands out with 2314 m, formed by Paleozoic quartzites and slates, partly covered by Mesozoic limestones. The second is formed by elevated terrain (from 1000 to 2000 m in general), but flattened and massive. To the southwest of the depression the summits of the Sierra de Albarracín range are reached above 1800 m, southeast the 2000 m are reached in the Sierra de Javalambre range and finally the Sierra de Gúdar range (2024 m) transitions to the Maestrazgo area in the Valencian Community. Climate and vegetation[edit] Formigal town in winter Formigal Ski Resort near Formigal town, Sallent de Gállego There are two main types of climate in Aragón, the Semi-arid climate and the Oceanic climate. Its irregular orography creates several microclimates throughout the entire community. From the High mountain Alpine climate of the central Pyrenees to the north, with perpetual ice (glaciers), to the Humid subtropical climate (which is very common in Huesca's lower altitude areas) to the steppe or semi-desert zones, such as the Monegros Desert, passing through the intense continental climate of the Teruel-Daroca area and the Mediterranean climate in the southern areas bordering Castilla La Mancha and the Valencian Community.[9] The main characteristics of the Aragonese climate are:[10] Rainfall is mostly low, with much of Aragon placed in a bowl of low ground between the Pyrenean mountain range to the north and the Sistema Ibérico mountain range to the south, cut off from maritime air masses. This situation means that the rain falls mainly in the higher areas, and that the temperature range features large contrasts, with cold winters and hot summers, as typical of continental climates. Monegros site, of arid climate and extreme temperatures Rainfall is also irregular, as typical of Mediterranean climates, with randomly alternating dry and wet years. The air currents are often encased in the middle Ebro Valley from northwest to southeast, giving a characteristic wind, the cierzo, which stands out for its intensity and frequency. Temperatures are very dependent on the altitude. In the Ebro Valley the winters are relatively moderate, although the frosts are very common and the thermal sensation can decrease a lot with the cierzo. Temperatures in summer can exceed 40 °C in the central areas. In mountain areas winters are long and rigorous, average temperatures can be up to 10 °C lower than in the valley. The two most important winds of Aragon are the cierzo and the bochorno or levant. The first is a cold and dry wind that crosses the Ebro Valley from nor contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 40 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Aragon responseCode 3 200 