kgsiiawglimmyixabcliqaictsdcjcjmtseaogtq length 6 151685 page 10026 This is the talk page for discussing improvements to the A. S. Byatt article. This is not a forum for general discussion of the article's subject. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit; get help. Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Article policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Find sources: Google (books · news · scholar · free images · WP refs) · FENS · JSTOR · NYT · TWL This article is of interest to the following WikiProjects: Vital articles: Level 5 / People B‑class A. S. Byatt has been listed as a level-5 vital article in People (Writers). If you can improve it, please do.Vital articlesWikipedia:WikiProject Vital articlesTemplate:Vital articlevital articles B This article has been rated as B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Biography: Arts and Entertainment B‑class Biography portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Biography, a collaborative effort to create, develop and organize Wikipedia's articles about people. All interested editors are invited to join the project and contribute to the discussion. For instructions on how to use this banner, please refer to the documentation.BiographyWikipedia:WikiProject BiographyTemplate:WikiProject Biographybiography articles B This article has been rated as B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. This article is supported by the arts and entertainment work group (assessed as High-importance). University of Oxford B‑class High‑importance University of Oxford portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject University of Oxford, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of the University of Oxford on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.University of OxfordWikipedia:WikiProject University of OxfordTemplate:WikiProject University of OxfordUniversity of Oxford articles B This article has been rated as B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. High This article has been rated as High-importance on the project's importance scale. This article has been automatically rated by a bot or other tool because one or more other projects use this class. Please ensure the assessment is correct before removing the |auto= parameter. Women writers B‑class Top‑importance This article is within the scope of WikiProject Women writers, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of women writers on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.Women writersWikipedia:WikiProject Women writersTemplate:WikiProject Women writersWomen writers articles B This article has been rated as B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Top This article has been rated as Top-importance on the project's importance scale. Women B‑class This article is within the scope of WikiProject Women, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of women on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.WomenWikipedia:WikiProject WomenTemplate:WikiProject WomenWikiProject Women articles B This article has been rated as B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Yorkshire B‑class Low‑importance Yorkshire portal A. S. Byatt is within the scope of WikiProject Yorkshire, an attempt to build a comprehensive and detailed guide to Yorkshire on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, you can visit the project page, where you can join the project, see a list of open tasks, and join in discussions on the project's talk page.YorkshireWikipedia:WikiProject YorkshireTemplate:WikiProject YorkshireYorkshire articles B This article has been rated as B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale. Article 2005[edit] I was most upset to read this shallow and irrelevant entry on A.S.Byatt who is one of the foremost contemporary British authors - and not only in my personal opinion! Out of the ten or more wonderful works of fiction that she has written, only two are mentioned in passing! Out of the nine different prestigious literary prices and awards that she has received only one is mentioned. There is not a word about her masterful quartet of novels (Virgin in the Garden, Still Life, The Babel Tower,The Whistling Woman)about a Yorkshire family. Not one of her excellent short story collections (Matisse Stories, Sugar and Other Stories, Stories of Fire and Ice, etc.) is mentioned by name. Instead most of the article is like taken from a gossip column (why she quarrels with her sister and why she does not like Harry Potter!) and is not worthy of Wikipedia. Miriam miriambe@savion.huji.ac.il I agree with you entirely, and reworked the article to change its focus to her works. Please feel free to add what you can about these other works as is possible, as I have not read them. Tim Rhymeless (Er...let's shimmy) 11:46, 11 Apr 2005 (UTC) I added a list of her works and awards and some paragraphs in the body of the article.Miriam It seems odd that her comments on Harry Potter are given a section almost longer than the rest of the entire article. If this "controversy" is really so important, perhaps it should be given an article of its own, otherwise it could easily be summarised in a single sentence or two, or deleted entirely. Nbear 05:53, 30 October 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply] I think the section about her criticism of the Harry Potter novels is necessary simply because it is biographical in nature. However, I do believe that the line "She was awarded a CBE in 1990, then a DBE in 1999." doesn't belong in the section and as such I've moved it the the section about her life and career. --Pavithran 13:55, 17 January 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] Marriage[edit] AS Byatt was married to Ian Byatt and now has the surname Duffy. Is this because of a second marriage? Millbanks (talk) 09:23, 7 August 2008 (UTC) Yes, it is (although I'm not sure she goes by the name Duffy, or even that she took it up), she was Antonia Drabble originally and is now married to Peter John Duffy in 1969 - see her website biography here: http://www.asbyatt.com/biography.aspx . Perhaps this ought to be mentioned? TrentandtheAcrobats (talk) 22:55, 2 September 2008 (UTC)Reply[reply] She was actually born and married (twice) as Susan Drabble. I don't know where the Antonia came from. Do a search for her birth name here: http://freebmd.org.uk/cgi/search.pl Ravenscroft32 (talk) 20:46, 5 December 2010 (UTC)Reply[reply] Works/bibliography[edit] Shouldn't this part have links to their actual pages? I agree, some of them redirect to this page, while others take you to pages about the novel. I will take out these links, and they can be put back when a page is set up. Baldwin Clere (talk) 09:48, 3 July 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply] The link to 'Still Life (Byatt Novel)' still redirects to the author's page. If there was a page for this novel which has now been removed, shouldn't the reference just be removed (leaving a red non-link) rather than creating a circular reference, which is very annoying? I've notices more and more circular refs in WP, so whoever's doing this, please stop! Chrismorey (talk) 08:41, 16 August 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply] weasel words/assertion of acclaim[edit] It seems to me that there are no weasel words in saying that someone has been hailed as one of the living greats (or dead, or was at the time, or is locally acclaimed or controversially claimed, etc etc etc)--it may be false or interpolated for biased purposes in particular cases, but here, I think is is fair to say that she has been acclaimed as great from quarters whose opinion weighs in. Clown in black and yellow 21:23, 23 July 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] Please read the Verifiability policy, as well as the Avoid Weasel Words Avoid Peacock Terms sections on the Manual of Style. If you believe that A S Byatt has been generally hailed, by people considered to have authority on the subject, as one of the great postmodern authors, you should have no trouble in naming two or three specific people who have done so. When they have been supplied, it can be mentioned who these people are, and exactly what they described Ms Byatt as. Until then, "has been hailed" is just a claim that adds no information to the article. I'll wait for this debate to play out before removing the term again, but I think it's clear from those policies that the statement isn't appropriate in its current form. TSP 21:38, 23 July 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] revert of 8/1[edit] If this sarcastically worded addition is passed on fact, it should be sourced. I don't put beggar-sticking past the feisty Byatt, but cite if it did happen. Clown in black and yellow 00:51, 2 August 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply] revert of 8/3[edit] I have added a link to the NY times archive of Byatt's Op-ed about Harry Potter. If I ever find a link to a non-paid cache of this article I will include it here. Yet, in doing this task, I noted that there had been a link to the Salon article supporting Byatt--which short of some kind of very abstruse argument that a few Philosophy majors (or lawyers) might produce, is pretty good prima facia evidence that the whole thing occurred--in any case, was there ever a factual doubt that the thing had happened--or that the depiction of it in the article was inaccurate? Short of a question of whether it all occurred, it seems to me that a request for a source has more to do with formal rigor, which has its' place--but not as the basis for summary deletion of a large passage of text. Even if there was a question of whether the depiction had been accurate, surely the thing to do is to correct, not to delete (and then add in links to (in this case, additional'It contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:A._S._Byatt responseCode 3 200 