kicipmmiisxmsgtiycfgrkcaociknqlqfehaaitg length 6 414444 page 10003 Wikipedia page describing different levels of user permissions "WP:RIGHTS" redirects here. For pages to request user rights, see Wikipedia:Requests for permissions and Wikipedia:Requests for adminship. For other uses, see Wikipedia:Right (disambiguation). "Wikipedia:User groups" redirects here. For groups of users who edit Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Work group. Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:UAL WP:RIGHTS To find the permissions for your account, go to Special:Preferences. Your permissions are listed in the user profile tab under "Member of groups". User access levels New users Unregistered (not logged in) users New Users Autoconfirmed and confirmed users Extended confirmed users Administrators and bureaucrats Administrators Bureaucrats Other flags giving access to specialized functions Pending changes reviewer Rollback Autopatrolled New page reviewer File mover Page mover Account creator Template editor Ipblock-exempt Edit filter helpers Edit Filter managers Interface administrators Oversight CheckUser Mass message sender Other flagged accounts Bots Founder Researcher Importers and Transwiki Global user groups Staff Stewards Sysadmins Ombuds VRT-permissions Global bots Global rollbackers Global sysops Global interface editors For all user permissions see this table. For other global user groups see Wikipedia:Global rights policy and meta:User groups. v t e The user access level of editors affects their abilities to perform specific actions on Wikipedia. A user's access level depends on which rights (also called permissions, user groups, bits, or flags) are assigned to accounts. There are two types of access leveling: automatic and requested. User access levels are determined by whether the Wikipedian is logged in, the account's age and edit count, and what manually assigned rights the account has. Anyone can use the basic functionalities of Wikipedia even if they are not logged in. Unless they are blocked, they may freely edit most pages. Being logged in gives users many advantages, such as having their public IP address hidden and the ability to track one's own contributions. Furthermore, once user accounts are more than a certain number of days old and have made more than a certain number of edits, they automatically become autoconfirmed or extended confirmed, allowing the direct creation of articles, the ability to move pages, to edit semi-protected and extended-protected pages, and upload files. Further access levels need to be assigned manually by a user with the appropriate authority. An editor with more experience and in good standing can attempt to become an administrator, which provides a large number of advanced permissions. Many different flags for specialized tasks are also available. Overview Further information: Wikipedia:Administration § Human and legal administration All visitors to the site, including unregistered users, are part of the * group, and all logged-in registered users are also part of the user group. Users are automatically promoted into the autoconfirmed/confirmed users pseudo-group of established users when their account is more than four days old and has ten edits, and the extended confirmed user group later on, at 30 days of age and 500 edits. Other flags are only given upon request; some, such as rollbacker, pending changes reviewer, or bot, are granted unilaterally if the user demonstrates a need for them (see Wikipedia:Requests for permissions and Wikipedia:Bots/Requests for approval). Others, such as sysop and bureaucrat, are given only after community discussion and consensus at Wikipedia:Requests for adminship. Users are made members of such groups as oversight and checkuser only with the approval of the Arbitration Committee, after signing the Wikimedia Foundation's confidentiality agreement for nonpublic information. User groups have one or more rights assigned to them; for example, the IP block-exempt (IP block exemptions) group has the ' ipblock-exempt' and ' torunblocked' rights. All members of a particular user group will have access to these rights. The individual rights that are assigned to user groups are listed at Special:ListGroupRights. Terms like rights, permissions, bits and flags can refer to both user groups and the individual rights assigned to them. Permissions requested at Requests for permissions only have local rights on the English Wikipedia wiki. Members of global user groups have rights across all Wikimedia Foundation wikis, although that access can sometimes be restricted by local wiki policies. Users registered at Wikimedia wikis also have registered user rights to other Wikimedia wikis if their account is a SUL or unified login account. Both local and global user group membership across Wikimedia wikis can be viewed at Special:CentralAuth. User groups The system-generated technical permissions are listed at Special:ListGroupRights. Standard user rights that are granted automatically Unregistered (IP or not logged in) users Shortcuts WP:IP WP:UNREGISTERED "WP:IP" redirects here. For intellectual property, see Wikipedia:Copyrights. Users who are not logged in are identified by their IP address rather than a username, whether or not they have already registered an account. They may read all Wikipedia pages (except restricted special pages), and edit pages that are not protected (including pending changes protected/move-protected articles). They may create talk pages in any talk namespace, but need to ask for help to create pages in some parts of the wiki. Furthermore, they cannot upload files or images. They must answer a CAPTCHA if they wish to make an edit which involves the addition of external links, and click a confirmation link to purge pages. All users may also query the site API in 500-record batches. Edit screens of unregistered users are headed by a banner displaying the Anoneditwarning system message. Registered (new) users Shortcut WP:REGISTERED See also: Wikipedia:Why create an account? Registered users may immediately e-mail other users if they activate an email address in their user preferences. All logged-in users may mark edits as minor. They may purge pages without a confirmation step, but are still required to answer a CAPTCHA when adding external links. Edits that they make to a page that is under pending changes protection will be accepted, but will not be immediately visible to non-logged-in users until they have been reviewed and approved. They may customize their Wikimedia interface and its options as they wish—either via Special:Preferences, or by adding personal CSS or JavaScript rules to their common.css or common.js files. They may create and maintain a watchlist. Autoconfirmed and confirmed users Shortcuts WP:AUTOCONFIRM WP:CONFIRM WP:AUTOC You are not logged in, so you are not autoconfirmed. Your account is autoconfirmedis not autoconfirmed. Several actions on the English Wikipedia (such as article creation) are restricted to user accounts that are at least 4 days old and have made at least 10 edits. Users who meet these requirements are considered part of the pseudo-group autoconfirmed. The conditions for autoconfirmed status are checked every time a user attempts to perform a restricted action; if they are met, permission is granted automatically by the MediaWiki software. Although the precise requirements for autoconfirmed status vary according to circumstances, most English Wikipedia user accounts that are at least 4 days old and have made at least 10 edits (including deleted edits) are considered autoconfirmed. However, users with the IP block exemption flag and who are editing through the Tor network are subjected to much stricter autoconfirmed thresholds: 90 days and 100 edits.[1] Autoconfirmed/confirmed users can create articles (except for create-protected pages), move pages (except for move-protected pages), edit semi-protected pages, and upload files (including new versions of existing files, except for upload-protected files). Edits that they make to a page that is under pending changes protection will be accepted and will immediately be visible to "users" who are not logged in without requiring review or approval (unless there are prior pending changes awaiting approval, in which case edits not made by reviewers or administrators will not become visible until the prior pending changes are accepted). Autoconfirmed users are no longer required to enter a CAPTCHA for most edits, including, but not limited to, adding external links. Autoconfirmed users may email users that have their "allow emails from brand-new users" checkbox off. In addition, the edit filter has a number of warning settings that will no longer affect editors who are autoconfirmed. Autoconfirmed/confirmed users gain access to additional tools such as Wikipedia:Twinkle. Sometimes, it is necessary for accounts to skip the customary confirmation period and to be confirmed right away. The confirmed group contains the exact same rights as the autoconfirmed pseudo-group, but can be granted by administrators and event coordinators[2] as necessary. It is redundant to grant the confirmed right to an account that is already autoconfirmed since it provides the exact same abilities. To request this permission, see Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Confirmed. See Special:ListUsers/confirmed for a list of the 562 confirmed users. As of July 2021[update], there were approximately 2.1 million autoconfirmed users on the English Wikipedia, of which the vast majority were inactive. See Special:ActiveUsers for a list of recently active users. Before 16 November 2016, confirmed and autoconfirmed users could also mark new pages as patrolled. This has been changed and now requires the new page reviewer right to do contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:AUTOCONFIRM responseCode 3 200 