kknizczmpmamsgsgpcbiceykceasaokczeakdmxk page 10031 Scouting organization in the United States For the scouting program within the BSA formerly known as the "Boy Scouts", see Scouts BSA. For the march by John Philip Sousa, see Boy Scouts of America (march). Boy Scouts of America Age range Learning for Life: Pre-K through 12th grade Cub Scouts: 5–10 Scouts BSA: 10–18 Venturing: 14–21 Exploring Club (LFL): 10-15 Sea Scouts: 14–21 Exploring Post (LFL): 16-20 Scout Leader: 18+ for Cub Scouts and Scouts BSA; 21+ for Venturing and Sea Scouting Headquarters Irving, Texas Location United States, Europe, Japan and South Korea Country United States Founded February 8, 1910; 113 years ago (1910-02-08) Founders Charles Alexander Eastman William D. Boyce Ernest Thompson Seton Daniel Carter Beard Membership 1,063,338 youth (2023) 42,822 units (2023)[1] Chief Scout Executive Roger Mosby Chair Dan Ownby National Commissioner Scott Sorrels Honorary Chair Joe Biden Affiliation World Organization of the Scout Movement Governing body National Executive Board Website scouting.org Scouting portal The Boy Scouts of America (BSA, colloquially the Boy Scouts) is one of the largest scouting organizations and one of the largest youth organizations in the United States, with about 762,000 youth participants. The BSA was founded in 1910, and since then, about 110 million Americans have participated in BSA programs. BSA is part of the international Scout Movement and became a founding member organization of the World Organization of the Scout Movement in 1922. The stated mission of the Boy Scouts of America is to "prepare young people to make ethical and moral choices over their lifetimes by instilling in them the values of the Scout Oath and Law." Youth are trained in responsible citizenship, character development, and self-reliance through participation in a wide range of outdoor activities, educational programs, and, at older age levels, career-oriented programs in partnership with community organizations. For younger members, the Scout method is part of the program to instill typical Scouting values such as trustworthiness, good citizenship, and outdoors skills, through a variety of activities such as camping, aquatics, and hiking. To further these outdoor activities, the BSA has four high-adventure bases: Northern Tier (Minnesota, Manitoba, and Ontario), Philmont Scout Ranch (New Mexico), Sea Base (Florida, US Virgin Islands, and Bahamas), and Summit Bechtel Reserve (West Virginia), as well as nearly one hundred separate camps and reservations specifically dedicated to scouts. The main Scouting divisions are Cub Scouting for ages 5 to 11 years, Scouts BSA for ages 10 to 18, Venturing for ages 14 through 21, and Sea Scouts for ages 14 through 21. The BSA operates Scouting by chartering local organizations, such as churches, clubs, civic associations, or educational organizations, to implement the Scouting program for youth within their communities. Units are led entirely by volunteers appointed by the chartering organization, who are supported by local councils using both paid professional Scouters and volunteers. Additionally, Learning for Life is an affiliate that provides in-school and career education. In 2019, the Boy Scouts of America renamed its flagship program, Boy Scouts, to Scouts BSA to reflect its policy change allowing girls to join separate, gender-specific troops. Origins[edit] Ernest Thompson Seton (left), Baden-Powell (seated) and Dan Beard (right) Further information: Scouting, Scouting in the United States, and History of the Boy Scouts of America The progressive movement in the United States was at its height during the early 20th century.[2] With the migration of families from farms to cities, there were concerns among some people that young men were no longer learning patriotism, self-reliance, and individualism. Several groups attempted to fill this void. The YMCA was an early promoter of reforms for young men with a focus on social welfare and programs of mental, physical, social and religious development.[3]: 72–82  Others, included the Woodcraft Indians started by Ernest Thompson Seton in 1902 in Cos Cob, Connecticut, and the Sons of Daniel Boone founded by Daniel Carter Beard in 1905 in Cincinnati, Ohio.[4], two notable independent scouting predecessors of BSA within the United States. Boy Scouts, Troop 10, Columbus, Ohio, 1918 In 1907, Robert Baden-Powell founded the Scouting movement in England using elements of Seton's works among other influences.[5] In 1909, Chicago publisher W. D. Boyce was visiting London, where he encountered a boy who came to be known as the Unknown Scout.[6] Boyce was lost on a foggy street when an unknown Scout came to his aid, guiding him to his destination. The boy then refused Boyce's tip, explaining that he was a Boy Scout and was merely doing his daily good turn. Interested in the Boy Scouts, Boyce met with staff at the Boy Scouts Headquarters and, by some accounts, Baden-Powell. Upon his return to the US, Boyce was inspired by his experience and incorporated the Boy Scouts of America on February 8, 1910.[7] Edgar M. Robinson and Lee F. Hanmer became interested in the nascent BSA and convinced Boyce to turn the program over to the YMCA for development in April 1910. Robinson enlisted Seton, Beard, Charles Eastman, and other prominent leaders in the early youth movements. Former president Theodore Roosevelt, who had long complained of the decline in American manhood, became an ardent supporter.[8] In January 1911, Robinson turned the movement over to James E. West who became the first Chief Scout Executive and Scouting began to expand in the US[3]: 148  Among other programs in the US, the Woodcraft Indians and Sons of Daniel Boone, eventually merged with the BSA.[9]: 52  The BSA's stated purpose at its incorporation in 1910 was "to teach [boys] patriotism, courage, self-reliance, and kindred values."[10]: 7  Later, in 1937, Deputy Chief Scout Executive George J. Fisher expressed the BSA's mission: "Each generation as it comes to maturity has no more important duty than that of teaching high ideals and proper behavior to the generation which follows."[11] The current mission statement of the BSA is "to prepare young people to make ethical and moral choices over their lifetimes by instilling in them the values of the Scout Oath and Law."[12][13] At its peak, Boy Scouts had an active membership of over 4 million youth in 1973.[14] Today, popularity in outdoor events has waned and membership has dropped. However, BSA remains the largest scouting organization and one of the largest youth organizations in the United States, with about 1.2 million youth participants and about one million adult volunteers as of 2021[update].[1][15][16] Federally chartered corporation[edit] The purposes of the corporation are to promote, through organization, and cooperation with other agencies, the ability of boys to do things for themselves and others, to train them in scoutcraft, and to teach them patriotism, courage, self-reliance, and kindred virtues, using the methods that were in common use by boy scouts on June 15, 1916. 36 U.S.C. § 30902 The BSA holds one of the comparatively rare congressional charters under Title 36 of the United States Code.[17][18] On behalf of the BSA, Paul Sleman, Colin H. Livingstone, Ernest S. Martin, and James E. West successfully lobbied Congress for a federal charter for the BSA which President Woodrow Wilson signed on June 15, 1916. One of the principal reasons for seeking a congressional charter was to deal with competition from other Scout organizations including the United States Boy Scouts and the Lone Scouts of America.[19] The 1916 statute of incorporation established this institution among a small number of similarly chartered patriotic and national organizations,[20] such as the Girl Scouts, Civil Air Patrol, the American Legion, the Red Cross, Little League Baseball, and the National Academy of Sciences. The federal incorporation was originally construed primarily as an honor; however, it does grant the chartered organization some special privileges and rights, including freedom from antitrust and monopoly regulation and complete control over the organization's symbols and insignia, [21] though it neither implies nor accords Congress any special control over the BSA, which remains free to function independently.[22] Membership[edit] Original programs[edit] A Venturer traverses a COPE High Ropes course. Boy Scouts of America uses four primary programs to achieve its aims in Scouting: Cub Scouting is available to youth from kindergarten through fifth grade. Scouts BSA (formerly Boy Scouts) is the flagship program of the BSA for youth ages 11 to 18; 10-year-olds can join after March 1 of their fifth grade year or if they have earned the Arrow of Light award.[23] Venturing is the program for ages 14 to 21.[24] Sea Scouting is the program for ages 14 to 21 focused on nautical activities.[25] There are about 100,000 physically or mentally disabled Scouts throughout the United States. Anyone certified as disabled "may enroll in Scouting and remain in its program beyond the regulation age limits. This provision allows all members to advance in Scouting as far as they wish."[26] Other programs[edit] The Boy Scouts of America offers several other programs and subprograms beyond regular membership: The Order of the Arrow is the Scouting national honor society for experienced campers, based on American Indian traditions and is dedicated to the ideals of brotherhood and cheerful service. To be considered for membership one must live their life by the Scout Law, accomplish several requirements, and be elected by members of their unit.[27] Lone Scouting is a program designed to allow those who would otherwise not be able to become Scouts or Cub Scouts—usually due to residence in an overseas/isolated community or unusual circumstances—to participate in the Scouting experience.[19] STEM Scouts is a pilot program of the BSA contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Boy_Scouts_of_America responseCode 3 200 