kmniqcyqqcicdmkcrilqichkpqvimcyqqoqeccjs length 6 172040 page 10017 Version(s) of the sport of cricket This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (August 2018) (template removal help) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Limited overs cricket" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2018) (template removal help) (template removal help) Part of a series on Cricket Cricket pictogram Women's cricket Forms of cricket Test cricket Men's format Women's format First-class cricket Men's format Women's format One Day International Men's format Women's format Limited overs (domestic) Limited overs cricket List A cricket Twenty20 International Men's format Women's format Twenty20 (domestic) Men's format Women's format Other forms 100-ball cricket Backyard cricket Bete-ombro Blind cricket Club cricket Crocker Deaf cricket French cricket Indoor cricket UK variant Kilikiti Plaquita Single wicket Softball cricket T10 cricket Tape ball cricket Tennis ball cricket Vigoro Village cricket International competitions ICC World Test Championship ICC Men's Test Team Rankings Cricket World Cup Women's Cricket World Cup ICC Men's T20 World Cup ICC Women's T20 World Cup ICC Champions Trophy ICC Cricket World Cup League 2 ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League Euro T20 Slam Asia Cup East Africa Premier League World Cricket League Africa Region Cricket at the Olympics Cricket at the Asian Games History of cricket History of cricket to 1725 History of cricket (1726–1750) History of cricket (1751–1775) History of cricket (1776–1800) History of cricket (1801–1825) History of women's cricket Records v t e Limited overs cricket, also known as one-day cricket or white ball cricket, is a version of the sport of cricket in which a match is generally completed in one day. There are a number of formats, including List A cricket (8-hour games), Twenty20 cricket (3-hour games), and 100-ball cricket (2.5 hours). The name reflects the rule that in the match each team bowls a set maximum number of overs (sets of 6 legal balls), usually between 20 and 50, although shorter and longer forms of limited overs cricket have been played. The concept contrasts with Test and first-class matches, which can take up to five days to complete. One-day cricket is popular with spectators as it can encourage aggressive, risky, entertaining batting, often results in cliffhanger endings, and ensures that a spectator can watch an entire match without committing to five days of continuous attendance. Structure[edit] A one-day match at Bellerive Oval Each team bats only once, and each innings is limited to a set number of overs, usually fifty in a One Day International and between forty and sixty in a List A. List A is a classification of the limited-overs (one-day) form of cricket, technically as the domestic level. Despite its name, important one-day matches, international and domestic, often have two days set aside, the second day being a "reserve" day to allow more chance of the game being completed if a result is not possible on the first day (for instance if play is prevented or interrupted by rain). Tiebreaker[edit] Main article: Result (cricket) § Tiebreakers In some tied limited-overs games, a Super Over is played, wherein each team bats for a one-over innings with two wickets in hand. A tied Super Over may be followed by another Super Over.[1] Player restrictions[edit] Bowling restrictions[edit] In almost all competitive one-day games, a restriction is placed on the number of overs that may be bowled by any one bowler. This is to prevent a side playing two top-class bowlers with extremely good stamina who can bowl throughout their opponents' innings. The usual limitation is set so that a side must include at least five players who bowl i.e. each bowler can only bowl 20% of the overs. For example, the usual limit for twenty-over cricket is four overs per bowler, for forty-over cricket eight per bowler and for fifty-over cricket ten per bowler.[2] There are exceptions: Pro Cricket in the United States restricted bowlers to five overs each, thus leaving a side requiring only four bowlers.[3] Fielding restrictions[edit] Main article: Fielding restrictions (cricket) White balls[edit] Main article: Cricket ball Limited over cricket is usually played with white balls rather than the traditional red balls. This was introduced because the team batting second is likely to need to play under floodlights and a white ball is easier to see under these conditions. The white balls are supposed to be otherwise identical to traditional balls, but according to BBC Sport, some cricketers claim that the harder surface causes white balls to swing more.[4] History[edit] The idea for a one-day, limited 50-over cricket tournament, was first played in the inaugural match of the All India Pooja Cricket Tournament in 1951 at Tripunithura in Kochi, Kerala. It is thought to be the brain child of KV Kelappan Thampuran, a former cricketer and the first Secretary of the Kerala Cricket Association.[5] The first limited-overs tournament between first-class English teams was the Midlands Knock-Out Cup, which took place in May 1962.[6] Played with 65-over innings, the Cup was organised by Mike Turner, secretary of the Leicestershire County Cricket Club. The competition was small, with three other county teams participating in addition to Leicestershire. However, it drew commercial television coverage and positive commentary by journalists, who noted the potential to attract sponsors and spectators amid declining attendance levels.[6][7] The following year, the first full-scale one-day competition between first-class teams was played, the knock-out Gillette Cup, won by Sussex. The number of overs was reduced to 60 for the 1964 season. League one-day cricket also began in England, when the John Player Sunday League was started in 1969 with 40-over matches. Both these competitions have continued every season since inauguration, though the sponsorship has changed. There is now one 50-over competition, which is called the Royal London One-Day Cup. The first Limited Overs International (LOI) or One-Day International (ODI) match was played between Australia and England in Melbourne on 5 January 1971,[8] and the quadrennial cricket World Cup began in 1975. Many of the "packaging" innovations, such as coloured clothing, were as a result of World Series Cricket, a "rebel" series set up outside the cricketing establishment by Australian entrepreneur Kerry Packer. For more details, see History of cricket. Twenty20, a curtailed form of one-day cricket with 20 overs (120 legal balls) per side, was first played in England in 2003. It has proven very popular, and several Twenty20 matches have been played between national teams. It makes several changes to the usual laws of cricket, including the use of a Super Over (one or more additional overs played by each team) to decide the result of tied matches. 100-ball cricket (2.5-hour games), another form of one-day cricket with 100 deliveries per side, launched in England in 2021. It is designed to further shorten game time and to attract a new audience. It makes further changes to the usual laws of cricket, such as the involvement of overs that last 5 balls each. There are now also T10 leagues with a format of 10 overs per side (resulting in 90-minute games). The Emirates Cricket Board also launched Ninety–90 Bash, an upcoming annual franchise-based 90-ball cricket league in the United Arab Emirates.[9] One Day Internationals[edit] Main articles: One Day International and Women's One Day International Chennai hosted an ODI match between India and New Zealand in 2010. The New Zealand batsman is in black, and India in blue are the fielding team. One Day International matches are usually played in brightly coloured clothing often in a "day-night" format where the first innings of the day occurs in the afternoon and the second occurs under stadium lights. One Day International tournaments[edit] In the early days of ODI cricket, the number of overs was generally 60 overs per side, and matches were also played with 40, 45 or 55 overs per side, but now it has been uniformly fixed at 50 overs. Every four years, the Cricket World Cup involves all the Test-playing nations and other national sides who qualify through the ICC World Cup Qualifier. It usually consists of round-robin stages, followed by semi-finals and a final. The International Cricket Council (ICC) determines the venue far in advance. The ICC Champions Trophy involves all the Test-playing nations, and is held between World Cups. It usually consists of a round-robin group stage, semifinals, and a final. Each Test-playing country often hosts triangular tournaments, between the host nation and two touring sides. There is usually a round-robin group , and then the leading two teams play each other in a final, or sometimes a best-of-three final. When there is only one touring side, there is still often a best-of-five or best-of-seven series of limited overs matches. The ICC World Cricket League is an ODI competition for national teams with Associate or Affiliate status. List A status[edit] Main article: List A cricket List A cricket is a classification of the limited-overs (one-day) form of the sport of cricket. Much as domestic first-class cricket is the level below international Test match cricket, so List A cricket is the domestic level of one-day cricket below One Day Internationals. Twenty20 matches do not qualify for the present. Most cricketing nations have some form of domestic List A competition. The number of contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Limited_overs_cricket responseCode 3 200 