kofgaopshipgjefotmyevoesmgnatifeoibaemim length 6 110432 page 8352 Element of writing This article is about the typographical term. For other uses, see Glyph (disambiguation). Various glyphs representing the lower case letter "a"; they are allographs of the grapheme ⟨a⟩ Look up glyph in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. This page uses orthographic and related notations. For the notations ⟨ ⟩, / / and [ ] used in this article, see IPA Brackets and transcription delimiters. A glyph (/ɡlɪf/) is any kind of purposeful mark. In typography, a glyph is "the specific shape, design, or representation of a character".[1] It is a particular graphical representation, in a particular typeface, of an element of written language. A grapheme, or part of a grapheme (such as a diacritic), or sometimes several graphemes in combination (a composed glyph)[a] can be represented by a glyph. Glyphs, graphemes and characters[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Glyph" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2021) (template removal help) In most languages written in any variety of the Latin alphabet except English, the use of diacritics to signify a sound mutation is common. For example, the grapheme ⟨à⟩ requires two glyphs: the basic a and the grave accent `. In general, a diacritic is regarded as a glyph,[2] even if it is contiguous with the rest of the character like a cedilla in French, Catalan or Portuguese, the ogonek in several languages, or the stroke on a Polish "Ł". Although these marks originally had no independent meaning, they have since acquired meaning in the field of mathematics and computing, for instance. Conversely, in the languages of Western Europe, the dot on a lower-case ⟨i⟩ is not a glyph in because it does not convey any distinction, and an ⟨ı⟩ in which the dot has been accidentally omitted is still likely to be recognized correctly. However, in Turkish and adjacent languages, this dot is a glyph because that language has two distinct versions of the letter i, with and without a dot. In Japanese syllabaries, some of the characters are made up of more than one separate mark, but in general these separate marks are not glyphs because they have no meaning by themselves. However, in some cases, additional marks fulfil the role of diacritics, to differentiate distinct characters. Such additional marks constitute glyphs. Some characters such as "æ" in Icelandic and the "ß" in German may be regarded as glyphs. They were originally typographic ligatures, but over time have become characters in their own right; these languages treat them as unique letters. However, a ligature such as "fi", that is treated in some typefaces as a single unit, is arguably not a glyph as this is just a design choice of that typeface, essentially an allographic feature, and includes more than one grapheme.[2] In normal handwriting, even long words are often written "joined up", without the pen leaving the paper, and the form of each written letter will often vary depending on which letters precede and follow it, but that does not make the whole word into a single glyph. Older models of typewriters required the use of multiple glyphs to depict a single character, as an overstruck apostrophe and period to create an exclamation mark. If there is more than one allograph of a unit of writing, and the choice between them depends on context or on the preference of the author, they now have to be treated as separate glyphs, because mechanical arrangements have to be available to differentiate between them and to print whichever of them is required. In computing as well as typography, the term "character" refers to a grapheme or grapheme-like unit of text, as found in natural language writing systems (scripts). In typography and computing, the range of graphemes is broader than in a written language in other ways too: a typeface often has to cope with a range of different languages each of which contribute their own graphemes, and it may also be required to print non-linguistic symbols such as dingbats. The range of glyphs required increases correspondingly. In summary, in typography and computing, a glyph is a graphical unit.[2] See also[edit] Basic Glyphs for Arabic Language – Unicode block (U+FE70-FEFF) containing spacing forms of Arabic diacritics, encoded for compatiblityPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback – Unicode code block Arabic Presentation Forms-B Character encoding – Using numbers to represent text characters Complex text layout – Neighbour-dependent grapheme positioning Diacritic – Modifier mark added to a letter Glyph Bitmap Distribution Format – File format for storing bitmap fonts Hieroglyph – Formal writing system used by ancient EgyptiansPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets International Phonetic Alphabet § Brackets and transcription delimiters Letterform – Term to refer to a letter's shape Letter cutting – Form of inscriptional architectural lettering Palaeography – Study of handwriting and manuscripts Punchcutting – Craft used in traditional typography Sort (typesetting) – Block with a typographic character etched on it, which is lined up with others to print text Notes[edit] ^ For example, the ampersand (&) began as two letters (⟨e⟩ and ⟨t⟩, the latin word et) that over the centuries became combined into a single unit known as a ligature References[edit] ^ Ilene Strizver. "Confusing (and Frequently Misused) Type Terminology, Part 1". fonts.com. Monotype Imaging. Archived from the original on 25 December 2011. ^ a b c Ken Whistler; Mark Davis; Asmus Freytag (11 November 2008). "Characters Vs Glyphs". Unicode Consortium. External links[edit] The dictionary definition of glyph at Wiktionary Media related to Glyphs at Wikimedia Commons v t e Lexicology Major terms Lexical item Lexicon Lexis Word Elements Chereme Glyphs Grapheme Lemma Lexeme Morpheme Phoneme Seme Sememe Semantic relations Antonymy Hyponymy and hypernymy Meronymy and holonymy Idiom Lexical semantics Semantic network Synonym Troponymy Functions Function word Headword Fields Controlled vocabulary English lexicology and lexicography International scientific vocabulary Lexicographic error Lexicographic information cost Linguistic prescription Morphology Specialized lexicography Linguistics portal v t e Typography Page Canons of page construction Column Even working Margin Page numbering Paper size Pagination Pull quote Recto and verso Intentionally blank page Paragraph Alignment Leading River Runaround Widows and orphans Character Typeface anatomy Counter Diacritics Dingbat Glyph Ink trap Ligature Rotation Subscript and superscript Swash Text figures Tittle Capitalization All caps Camel case Initial Letter case Small caps Snake case Visual distinction Italics Oblique Bold Color printing Underline Blackboard bold Blackletter Horizontal aspects Figure space Kerning Letter-spacing Paren space Sentence spacing Space Thin space Vertical aspects Ascender Baseline Body height Cap height Descender Median Overshoot x-height Typeface classifications Roman type Serif (Antiqua, Didone, slab serif) Sans-serif Blackletter type Fraktur Rotunda Schwabacher Gaelic type Insular Uncial Specialist Record type Display typeface (script, fat face, reverse-contrast) Punctuation Dashes Hanging punctuation Hyphen-minus Hyphenation Prime mark Quotation mark Typesetting Etaoin shrdlu Font computer monospaced Font catalog For position only Letterpress Lorem ipsum Microprinting Microtypography Movable type Pangram Phototypesetting Punchcutting Reversing type Type color Type design Typeface list Typographic units Agate Cicero Em En Measure Pica Point traditional point-size names Proposed metric units Twip Digital typography Character encoding Hinting Rasterization Typographic features Web typography Bézier curves Desktop publishing Typography in other writing systems Arabic East Asian Thai Related articles Calligraphy Handwriting Scribe Style guide Type design Type foundry History of Western typography Intellectual property protection of typefaces Technical lettering Vox-ATypI classification Related tables Punctuation and other typographic symbols Category contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 39 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Glyph responseCode 3 200 