koniiclicgrmfkqivcvgeotsxirmucvmqiosocoq length 5 69801 page 2639 v t e Requests for permissions Common Autopatrolled AutoWikiBrowser New page reviewer Page mover Pending changes reviewer Rollback Uncommon Account creator Confirmed Event coordinator Extended confirmed File mover Mass message sender Template editor Logs Archived requests Approved requests Denied requests System rights log Special Administrator Bot Bureaucrat CheckUser and Oversight Edit filter helper Edit filter manager Interface administrator Confirmed[edit] Sorry, unregistered users cannot be granted permissions due to technical restrictions. Please create an account in order to request user account permissions. (add request • view requests) Shortcuts WP:PERM/C WP:RFP/C Before making a request here, you should be aware that your account only needs to exist for four days and make ten edits and it will be automatically confirmed. Since the bar for automatic confirmation is deliberately quite low, the vast majority of requests here are denied. Unless you are requesting confirmation for a legitimate alternate account your request will almost certainly be denied. Alternatives are presented below: Are you here to solely upload an image? Please make a request at Files for upload for non-free images or use the same username and password you have here to upload free images at Wikimedia Commons. Are you here because you want to edit a page, but the page is protected from editing? With no track record for your account there is no basis for knowing if we should confirm you early. 95% of Wikipedia articles are not protected, so you can dive right into those or use {{edit semi-protected}} to request edits on the article's talk page. Are you here because you want to change the name of an article? Please use the Requested moves process for that. User:Blvck Panther[edit] Blvck Panther (t · c · del · cross-wiki · SUL · edit counter · pages created (xtools · sigma) · non-automated edits · BLP edits · undos · manual reverts · rollbacks · logs (blocks · rights · moves) · rfar · spi) (assign permissions) Reason for requesting confirmed rights is to upload a photograph Blvck Panther (talk) 09:24, 18 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Not done – If the file you want to upload is available under a free license, it should be uploaded to our free media repository, Commons. You do not need any special permissions to upload there, and you can use the same username and password you use here. If it is not available under a free license, it should be requested using the Files for upload process, which does not require any special permissions. stwalkerster (talk) 10:18, 18 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 78 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_permissions/Confirmed responseCode 3 200 