koxoykxmzifabqzkrowokasshgogzggsvajqeakc length 6 226626 page 10009 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... Please add the line ==={{subst:CURRENTDAY}} {{subst:CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{subst:CURRENTYEAR}}=== for each new day and the time the set was removed from the DYK template at the top for the newly posted set of archived hooks. This will ensure all times are based on UTC time and accurate. This page should be archived once a month. Thanks. 30 April 2017 01:40, 30 April 2017 (UTC) Altenberger Dom ... that the Altenberger Dom (pictured) was restored with support from a Prussian king who decreed that Catholics and Protestants had to use it simultaneously? ... that Britain's first motorway, the Preston By-pass, had to close within weeks of opening due to frost damage? ... that Lewis Ludington founded the city of Columbus, Wisconsin, but never resided in the state? ... that Puzzled was one of twenty games that came with the 2012 Neo Geo X console? ... that after the Duluth lynchings, the African-American suffragist Nellie Griswold Francis initiated, drafted, and lobbied for a state anti-lynching bill that was signed into law in 1921? ... that the trap-jaw ant Odontomachus assiniensis stings larger prey but kills smaller prey with a snap of its jaws? ... that Loma Linda Foods and Worthington Foods were the largest manufacturers of soy-based foods in the U.S. in the 1960s? ... that the artist Myles Murphy was seriously injured while painting himself in a wedding dress? 29 April 2017 01:55, 29 April 2017 (UTC) Alf Ramsey ... that Alf Ramsey (pictured) led Ipswich Town to become English football champions four years before leading England to win the 1966 FIFA World Cup? ... that the engine frames of the Mississippi River and Bonne Terre Railway "had to be extra heavy ... to withstand rough usage"? ... that El Temblor in Guatemala is the site of a ruined ancient Maya city that has not yet been excavated by archaeologists, but has been badly damaged by looters? ... that the linguistic research of Elena Georgieva showed that Bulgarian word order may change based on the emphasis a speaker wants to convey? ... that all four Andretti Autosport entries at the 2017 Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach retired from the race due to mechanical or electrical issues? ... that the Bollywood writer Mukhram Sharma won the inaugural Filmfare Award for Best Story in 1955 for Aulad (1954)? ... that the NDR Chor performed in Beethoven's Ninth Symphony for the opening of the Elbphilharmonie? ... that Min Bala staged a coup against King Hkun Law of Martaban, only to give up the throne at his wife's insistence? 28 April 2017 02:10, 28 April 2017 (UTC) Electric fire engine (left) and steam fire engine ... that the electric fire engine had numerous advantages over the 19th-century steam fire engine (both pictured), but was not put into service because a storm could knock out the power? ... that anthropologist Verrier Elwin's autobiography The Tribal World of Verrier Elwin was published posthumously and won the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1965? ... that John Henderson is the oldest living former Texas Longhorns football player? ... that Ed Krupp has been director of Griffith Observatory for more than half of its existence? ... that "The Devil of Christmas", a 2016 episode of Inside No. 9, was filmed using authentic 1970s cameras? ... that during the Trunajaya rebellion, Pangeran Adipati Anom expected a fake engagement at the Battle of Gegodog, but instead his army suffered a decisive defeat? ... that the newly-opened Karşıyaka Tram will be free of charge for its first 50 days? ... that star wars took place in Mexico 1,500 years ago? 27 April 2017 00:00, 27 April 2017 (UTC) Unita Blackwell ... that civil rights activist Unita Blackwell (pictured) was the first African-American woman to be elected mayor in the state of Mississippi? ... that soldiers lined up on the sinking British troopship SS Tyndareus began to sing "It's a Long Way to Tipperary" while waiting for orders? ... that many reviewers compared the superhero comic Ultra to the television series Sex and the City? ... that the recently named fossil egg Suchoolithus dates to the Late Jurassic, making it tied for the oldest-known crocodylomorph egg? ... that the film The Brainwashing of My Dad received funding from Kickstarter? ... that the term elastance, the inverse of capacitance, was coined by Oliver Heaviside to promote an analogy of a capacitor as a spring rather than a container of charge? ... that "Christ ist erstanden", an old German hymn mentioned as early as the 12th century, was set for choir in the 21st century? ... that despite topping his class at Sandhurst, John Gellibrand found the prospects for promotion in the British Army so bleak that he resigned his commission and moved to Tasmania to grow apples? 26 April 2017 00:00, 26 April 2017 (UTC) Statue of Rishabhanatha ... that Rishabhanatha (statue pictured), the traditional founder of Jainism, was said to be born in the age when there was happiness all around with no work for men to do? ... that Namibia is considering abolishing winter time? ... that the Australian cricketer Veronica Pyke was the second highest wicket-taker in the inaugural Women's Big Bash League season in 2015–16? ... that the Palau ground dove prefers limestone islands to volcanic islands? ... that when Marshall L. Shepard said the opening prayer at the 1936 Democratic National Convention, segregationist Senator Ellison D. Smith left in protest? ... that a campaign mailer for Los Angeles' Measure S designed to look like an eviction notice drew the ire of the sheriff's department after many recipients thought it was real? ... that professional figure skaters Stéphane Lambiel and Nobunari Oda had cameos in the anime series Yuri on Ice? ... that the US military refers to Death Valley's Rainbow Canyon as Star Wars Canyon? 25 April 2017 00:00, 25 April 2017 (UTC) Big Chief Restaurant ... that Big Chief Restaurant (pictured) in Wildwood, Missouri, is all that remains of a tourist complex that opened on U.S. Route 66 in 1928? ... that during the Holocaust in Italy, doctors at Fatebenefratelli Hospital protected Jews from the Nazis by diagnosing them with a fictitious disease called "Syndrome K"? ... that Louise Nixon Sutton was the first African-American woman to be awarded a PhD in mathematics by New York University in 1962? ... that Muhammad's first wife Khadija and uncle Abu Talib died in the same year, traditionally known as the Year of Sorrow? ... that the predatory mite Neoseiulus cucumeris can survive and breed while feeding solely on pollen? ... that Filipino director Jerrold Tarog has planned a film adaptation of the graphic novel The Mythology Class by Arnold Arre? ... that two students at Traian National College in Turnu Severin, Romania, were executed in 1949 for being part of the anti-communist resistance movement? ... that Caleb Swanigan went from being a 360-pound (160 kg) eighth grader to an NCAA basketball consensus first-team All-American? 24 April 2017 00:00, 24 April 2017 (UTC) Washington at Verplanck's Point ... that Washington at Verplanck's Point (pictured), a gift from John Trumbull to the president's wife, Martha Washington, was praised as “the most perfect extant” by her grandson? ... that on his 48th birthday, artillery officer Bjarne Keyser Barth was tasked by his commander with surrendering a fortress to invading German troops? ... that the plant species Antirrhinum filipes has been discovered on slopes in the Grand Canyon, within the Mojave Desert, and within the Sonoran Desert? ... that Javed Agrewala and his team developed contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2017/April responseCode 3 200 