kqlizarsskuodmdcyaoswkookkhswoxcvgjkkmna page 10006 For Wikipedia administrators (admins, sysops), see Wikipedia:Administrators. "WP:GOV" redirects here. For the style guidelines on capitalization for government institutions, see MOS:INSTITUTIONS. Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:ADMINST WP:GOV This page in a nutshell: Both the human administrative structure, as well as its non-human components, are briefly described within this article (with appropriate links to the more exhaustive articles on each topic). Wikipedia requires a certain amount of administration and governance in order to further the project's goals. To achieve Wikipedia's purpose, a wide range of administrative pages are made available in various namespaces which enumerate the various protocols and conventions created and implemented by community consensus for English Wikipedia. Of course, this process is not generally automated, and live human administration is necessary to ensure that the editing of project pages, whether administration pages or content pages, happens peacefully and in accordance with the policies generally, and loosely, governing the creation and editing of all Wikipedia pages. Human and legal administration Shortcuts WP:ADMINH WP:GOVH See also: Wikipedia:Editorial oversight and control and User:Jimbo Wales/Statement of principles Further information: History of Wikipedia § Development of Wikipedia Wikipedia administrative structure At the top of the human and legal administrative structure is the Wikimedia Foundation, a not-for-profit and charitable organization governed by a Board of Trustees. Although the Wikimedia Foundation owns Wikipedia, it is largely uninvolved in the creation of Wikipedia's policies and daily implementation of those policies (see below). The Wikipedia community is generally self−organizing and −governing, as editors with varying administrative abilities and their elected project administrators are granted considerable discretion over the means used to accomplish Wikipedia's purpose. Editors are entrusted with the responsibility of upholding the integrity of Wikipedia while adhering to intellectual property rights, such as avoiding plagiarism, respecting copyright laws, and presenting appropriate citations for article content. Pursuant to the Five Pillars, English Wikipedia does not occur according to firm rules. Wikipedia's protocols are principles, not a civil code or exacting law and are actualized using common sense and editor discretion. Wikipedia's policies, guidelines, and formatting norms are created and revised by the editing community to describe best practices, and clarify doctrine aimed at improving the encyclopedia and resolving disputes. These "official" protocols and conventions require discussion and a high level of community-wide consensus for promotion to a guideline or policy, thus have a significant degree of influence during deliberations. Most processes on Wikipedia depend on editor consensus in some form or another governed by Wikipedia's content and conduct policies. While consensus is the key method for making decisions, a consensus amongst a small group of editors cannot override community wide policies such as "Neutral point of view". In order to determine community consensus and resolve ongoing disputes, a wide array of discussion venues are made available covering topic specific issues editors encounter in writing and maintaining Wikipedia. Ensuring the harmonious implementation of the project's editor consensus-developed protocols governing the creation and development of all types of pages are editors elected or appointed to certain roles: i.e., functionaries like stewards and the Arbitration Committee, alongside bureaucrats, and administrators, all of whom ultimately derive their own authority from the Wikimedia Foundation. As well as being volunteer mediators, with the ability (tools) to restrict editing on pages, "project custodians" have the authority to limit, block or ban individuals who would widely be seen as disruptive, tendentious, or dishonest. In cases where the conduct dispute resolution procedure has been ineffective, the Arbitration Committee has the authority to deal with highly disruptive or sensitive situations. Some matters of a legal nature with regards to the safety of children, libel statements, legal threats or threats of harm, are reported to administrators and may be deferred to the Wikimedia Foundation for resolution and the edit history of the incident removed from public view. Wikimedia Foundation Further information: History of Wikipedia § The Wikimedia Foundation and legal structures See also: Wikipedia:Role of Jimmy Wales and WP:CONEXCEPT Logo of the Wikimedia Foundation. The Wikimedia Foundation (WMF) owns and operates Wikipedia, along with several other collaborative, wiki-based Internet projects. The WMF organizes the raising of money, distributes grants, develops software, deploys that software, controls the servers, and does outreach to support Wikimedia projects. The WMF does not edit Wikipedia content (except for occasional office actions). Wikipedia editors handle content and internal policies. The WMF is governed and guided by the terms of their Charter, Corporate Bylaws, Mission Statement, Vision, Values, and Strategy (the last two of which are not officially adopted by the Foundation). In addition, the Founding Principles are a statement of the common principles guiding the founding of any Wikimedia project. See officially adopted policies. The global work of the Foundation is supported by "Wikimedia local chapters" (usually incorporated as non-profit corporations, according to the law of the locality), and each is governed by their own chapter board of trustees. Trustees of Wikimedia affiliates are assisted by a very small number of Wikimedia staff. Editors Shortcuts WP:ADMINE WP:GOVE Icon that typically represents editors on Wikipedia Editors, often referred to as Wikipedians, are the individuals who comprise the community of volunteers that write and edit the pages of Wikipedia as opposed to readers, who simply read the articles. Some editors use their real life names as "user names", to identify themselves on Wikipedia, whereas others choose never to reveal personal information. Theoretically all editors are equal with no "power structure" or "law enforcement officers." There are however, within the editing community, editors with extra privileges (maintenance responsibilities or ability to perform certain administrative actions). Other categories of contributors have also emerged, such as Wikipedians in residence and students with assignments related to editing Wikipedia (see below). To locate your user access levels, go to Special:Preferences. In the "user profile" tab is "Member of groups". User access levels (or User rights and groups) are determined by whether an editor is logged into an account, whether the account is of sufficient age or by number of constrictive edits based on knowledge of Wikipedia protocols. Some User levels are granted automatically; for example, an autoconfirmed user is an account that is more than four days old. Others User rights are only given upon request, such as rollbacker, page mover or template editor. Entry into User groups such as administrator and bureaucrat, are determined by community discussion and consensus (see below). Oversight and CheckUser Rights are only granted by the Arbitration Committee, and only after strict scrutiny (see below). The system-generated user rights are listed at Special:ListGroupRights. The English Wikipedia currently has 46,510,018 users who have registered a username. Only a minority of users contribute regularly (122,469 have edited in the last 30 days), and only a minority of those contributors participate in community discussions. An unknown but relatively large number of unregistered Wikipedians also contribute to the site. Creating an account is free and has several benefits, for example, the ability to create pages, upload media, and edit without one's IP address being visible to the public. Stewardship Icon that typically represents stewards on Wikipedia Stewards are volunteer editors with complete access to the wiki interface on all Wikimedia wikis, including the ability to change any and all user rights and groups. This means that, along with the Wikipedia Arbitration Committee, stewards have Checkuser and Oversight rights. They are tasked with technical implementation of community consensus, dealing with emergencies, and intervening against cross-wiki vandalism. The number of stewards is not limited by any policies. Stewards are elected annually by the global Wikimedia community. Candidates must have a support/oppose ratio of at least 80% with at least 30 supporting users. Current stewards are confirmed during each election. Stewards are subject to the stewards' policy; further documentation may be found in the steward handbook. The Wikimedia Foundation created the position of steward when it recognized the need to separate user rights management from software development and systems administration. Arbitration Committee Icon that typically represents Arbitration Committee members on Wikipedia Members of the Arbitration Committee (referred to as ArbCom or Arbs), are volunteer editors who act in concert or in sub-groups imposing binding solutions on conduct disputes the community has been unable to resolve. ArbCom has very wide latitude in adjudication with the authority to impose general sanctions and/or personal sanctions on editors or groups of editors. They impose sanctions, either as a result of remedies accepted during cases, or during requests for clarification or amendment, or as a result of motions. The arbitration process exists exclusively contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:ADMINP responseCode 3 200 