ksmmhakgzabolgxcgkyafenawkwiwgrazaqctkgc length 6 356017 page 10010 Explanatory supplement to the Wikipedia Manual of Style guideline "Wikipedia:Topic" redirects here. For information about topic bans, see Wikipedia:Banning policy § Topic ban. "WP:PCR" redirects here. For the user rights, see WP:RPC. This is an explanatory essay about the Wikipedia:Manual of Style guideline. This page is intended to provide additional information about concepts in the page(s) it supplements. This page is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, as it has not been thoroughly vetted by the community. Shortcuts WP:BETTER WP:WBA Explanatory essay about the Wikipedia:Manual of Style guideline Contributing to Wikipedia (Tutorial) Policies and guidelines Editing policy Content policies Dispute resolution Simple rule set Simple style manual Introductions About Wikipedia Administration How to contribute Tutorial How-to pages Creating an account How to edit Starting an article Article wizard Talk pages Referencing Renaming Deletion Media Lists Tables Templates Copying text Style tips Wikitext Writing advice Article development Basic copyediting Layouts Avoiding mistakes Writing better Perfect article Advanced editing Community Portal Dashboard Essays Maintenance Task Center WikiProjects Editor's index Directories and indexes FAQs Help index Tools Interactive help Teahouse Help desk v t e Manual of Style (MoS) Content Accessibility Biography Disambiguation pages Organizing by subject Gender identity Hidden text Infoboxes Linking Self-references Words to watch Formatting Abbreviations Capitalization Dates and numbers Pronunciation Spelling Text formatting Titles of works Images Captions Image placement Icons Images Layout Layout Lead section Tables Trivia sections Lists Lists Lists of works Road junctions Stand-alone lists By topic area Legal Legal Trademarks Arts Anime and manga Comics Blazons Film Lyrics and poetry Novels Philosophy Television Video games Visual arts Writing about fiction Music Music samples Record charts Stringed instruments Regional Specific naming conventions Canada China (and Chinese) Egypt France (and French) Hawaii India Indonesia Ireland Japan Korea Macedonia Malaysia Pakistan Philippines Poland Singapore Trinidad and Tobago Religion Islam Latter Day Saints Science Mathematics Medicine Taxonomy Chemistry Compound classes Chemicals References and external links Safety Structure drawing Sports Cue sports Snooker Related guidelines Article size Article titles Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Citing sources Hatnotes Military history Notability Signatures Subpages Talk page guidelines Template namespace Understandability User pages Wikimedia sister projects WikiProjects Overview Contents Tips v t e This page advises on article layout and style, and on making an article clear, precise and relevant to the reader. You can post questions about English grammar and usage at Wikipedia:Reference desk/Language. If you want to peruse some of Wikipedia's finest articles, have a look at Wikipedia:Featured articles. For information on how to cite sources, see Wikipedia:Citing sources. For our guidelines on style, see the Wikipedia:Manual of Style and its subsidiary pages, listed in its template. To learn about markup in Wikipedia articles, see Help:Editing. To learn about lists, disambiguation pages, and images, see Help:List, Wikipedia:Disambiguation, and Help:Pictures. Structure of the article Main page: Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Layout Good articles start with introductions, continue with a clear structure, and end with standard appendices such as references and related articles. Introductory material / Lead Further information: § Lead section, and Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Lead section Articles start with a lead section (WP:CREATELEAD) summarising the most important points of the topic. The lead section is the first part of the article; it comes above the first header, and may contain a lead image which is representative of the topic, and/or an infobox that provides a few key facts, often statistical, such as dates and measurements. The lead should stand on its own as a concise overview of the article's topic, identifying the topic, establishing context, and explaining why the topic is notable. The first few sentences should mention the most notable features of the article's subject – the essential facts that every reader should know. Significant information should not appear in the lead if it is not covered in the remainder of the article; the article should provide further details on all the things mentioned in the lead. Each major section in the article should be represented with an appropriate summary in the lead, including any prominent controversies; but be careful not to violate WP:Neutral point of view by giving undue attention to less important controversies, information, or praise in the lead section. As in the body of the article itself, the emphasis given to material in the lead should roughly reflect its importance to the topic, according to reliable, published sources. As a rough guide to size, a lead section should generally contain no more than four well-composed paragraphs and be carefully sourced as appropriate. Sometimes, the first section after the lead is a broad summary of the topic, and is called "Overview", although more specific section titles and structures are generally preferred. Paragraphs Shortcut WP:PARAGRAPH See also: Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Layout § Paragraphs Paragraphs should be short enough to be readable, but long enough to develop an idea. Paragraphs should deal with a particular point or idea. All the sentences within a paragraph should revolve around the same topic. When the topic changes, a new paragraph should be started. Overly long paragraphs should be split up, as long as the cousin paragraphs keep the idea in focus. One-sentence paragraphs are unusually emphatic, and should be used sparingly. Some paragraphs are really tables or lists in disguise. They should be rewritten as prose or converted to their unmasked form. Wikipedia:When to use tables and Wikipedia:Embedded list offer guidance on the proper use of these elements. Headings Headings help clarify articles and create a structure shown in the table of contents. To learn about how the MediaWiki software uses sections, see Help:Section. Headings are hierarchical. The article's title uses a level 1 heading, so you should start with a level 2 heading (==Heading==) and follow it with lower levels: ===Subheading===, ====Subsubheading====, and so forth. Whether extensive subtopics should be kept on one page or moved to individual pages is a matter of personal judgment. See also below under § Summary style. Headings should not be Wikilinked. This is because headings in themselves introduce information and let the reader know what subtopics will be presented; Wikilinks should be incorporated in the text of the section. Images If the article can be illustrated with pictures, find an appropriate place to position these images, where they relate closely to text they illustrate. For more information on using pictures, see Wikipedia:Layout § Images and Wikipedia:Picture tutorial. Standard appendices As explained in more detail at Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Layout § Standard appendices and footers, optional appendix sections containing the following information may appear after the body of the article in the following order: A list of books or other works created by the subject of the article (works) A list of internal "wikilinks" to related Wikipedia articles (see also) Notes and references (notes, footnotes, or references) A list of recommended relevant books, articles, or other publications that have not been used as sources (further reading) A list of recommended relevant websites that have not been used as sources (external links). With some exceptions, any links to sister projects appear in further reading or external links sections. Succession boxes and navigational footers go at the end of the article, following the last appendix section, but preceding the category and interwiki templates. Size Shortcut WP:BETTER#SIZE See also: Wikipedia:Article size Excessively long articles should usually be avoided. Articles should ideally contain less than 50,000 characters of text.[1] When articles grow past this amount of readable text, they can be split into smaller articles to improve readability and ease of editing, or may require trimming to remain concise. The headed sub-section should be retained, with a concise version of what has been removed under an italicized header, such as Main article: History of Ruritania (a list of templates used to create these headers is available at Category:Wikipedia page-section templates). Otherwise, context is lost and the general treatment suffers. Each article on a subtopic should be written as a stand-alone article—that is, it should have a lead section, headings, et cetera. When an article is long and has many sub articles, try to balance the main page. Do not put undue weight into one part of an article at the cost of other parts. In shorter articles, if one subtopic has much more text than another subtopic, that may be an indication the subtopic should have its own page, with only a summary presented on the main page. Articles covering subtopics Wikipedia articles tend to grow in a way that leads to the natural creation of new articles. The text of any article consists of a sequence of related but distinct subtopics. When there is enough text in a given subtopic to merit its own article, that text can be summarized in the present article and a link provided to the more detailed article. Cricket is an example of an article covering subtopics: it is divided into subsections that give an overview of the sport, with each subsection leading to one or more subtopic articles. Information style and tone Shortcuts WP:Encyclopedic style WP:EPSTYLE Two styles, closely related and not mutually exclusive, tend to be used for Wikipedia articles. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:AUDIENCE responseCode 3 200 