ksuicmzkskqqzkpebauoygtilossngdgfcigpqrg length 5 86196 page 4902 "Help:Images" redirects here. For information on formatting images on Wikipedia, see Help:Pictures. Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts H:MEDIA H:VM Readers' FAQ About Wikipedia Administration FAQs Assessing article quality Authority control Books Categories Censorship Copyright Disambiguation Images and multimedia ISBN Microformats Mobile access Offline access Navigation Other languages Page names Portals Searching Student help Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Readers' glossary Readers' index Reader's guide to Wikipedia v t e Wikipedia uses a variety of multimedia files to enhance content and explain concepts that are difficult to convey via text alone. The multimedia files may be images (photographs or diagrams), audio or video. Many files are stored on the sister project Wikimedia Commons, though files being used under fair use provisions must be stored on Wikipedia. All files are paired with a file description page which consists of five parts: The file itself Description of the file "File history" – when a new version of a file is uploaded with the same name, the existing file is replaced and becomes available via file history. "File links" – a list of pages that embed the file. "Metadata" (images only) – technical information about the file and the equipment used to create it (camera model etc.) Most images in Wikipedia articles are scaled down thumbnails. A reader of an article can click on the thumbnail, or on the small double-rectangle icon (if present) next to the caption, to see the corresponding file page and the image at a larger size. From the file description page, click the image again to see it at maximum size. Most audio and video files on Wikipedia are Ogg Vorbis (audio) or Ogg Theora (video). The web browsers Mozilla Firefox (version 3.5 and higher) and Google Chrome (version 3 and higher) can play these files automatically. Users on other platforms might experience suboptimal playback results, because they rely on a resource intensive, client side emulation to do playback. See also Wikipedia:Extended image syntax for technical details of displaying images Help:Pictures Help:Files Help:Options to not see an image Wikipedia:Media help (Ogg) for help playing these files. Wikimedia Commons v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Viewing_media responseCode 3 200 