ladoxcciustosmcgxcaegkbqyqcoiilccqbatifa length 6 308955 page 10012 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... Please add the line ==={{subst:CURRENTDAY}} {{subst:CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{subst:CURRENTYEAR}}=== for each new day and the time the set was removed from the DYK template at the top for the newly posted set of archived hooks. This will ensure all times are based on UTC time and accurate. This page should be archived once a month. Thanks. 31 January 2018 15:00, 31 January 2018 (UTC) Persoonia elliptica flowers ... that the Western Australian shrubs Persoonia elliptica (pictured) and Persoonia saccata are known as snottygobbles? ... that New York City's Broadway Junction station sees 100,000 daily riders, the vast majority using it to make transfers? ... that Ilona Durigo, one of the leading concert contraltos of her time, performed in the first recording of Bach's St Matthew Passion, conducted by Willem Mengelberg? ... that Oneco referred to the gift of a ceremonial sword from Charles II of England as proof of the legal equality of the Mohegan sachemate with the English monarchy? ... that the company developing the SSM-A-23 Dart anti-tank missile changed ownership twice while the project was underway? ... that Mildred Dilling's first fee for a harp performance was a dozen carnations and a jar of pickles? ... that a newly appointed count of the Székelys was entitled to a horse from each of the Székely seats? ... that of the six known Anglo-Saxon helmets, the Shorwell helmet was originally mistaken for a pot, the Pioneer helmet for a bucket, and the Coppergate helmet for a rock? 00:00, 31 January 2018 (UTC) Yanmen Pass ... that the inconvenience of getting to Yanmen Pass (pictured) makes it one of the less crowded AAAAA-rated sites along the Great Wall of China? ... that American scholar Paul Y. Hammond sought to develop a more discerning understanding of how organizational behavior and domestic political considerations affected American foreign policy? ... that among the accolades received by I, Tonya are five British Academy Film Award nominations? ... that the comic "Shoot", originally scheduled for publication in a 1999 issue of Hellblazer, was not published until 2010? ... that Canadian physician Fraser Rose was partly named after the doctor who walked through a snowstorm in Nova Scotia to deliver him? ... that the first shipment of books for the Washington Territorial Library traveled around Cape Horn from New York City? ... that the Edict of Milan, an agreement between Constantine and Licinius to treat the Christian Church peacefully, was issued during the pontificate of Pope Miltiades? ... that the Alabama Crimson Tide overcame a 13–0 deficit at halftime to win the 2018 College Football Playoff National Championship in overtime? 30 January 2018 12:00, 30 January 2018 (UTC) Blossom's Inn, by Thomas H. Shepherd, 1850 ... that a porter at Blossom's Inn (pictured) was revived by treatment that included bleeding, brandy, and a turpentine enema? ... that while chief justice of the Colony of Cape Breton, Richard Gibbons founded a group that was later banned as being a possible "Seed of Rebellion"? ... that Cider with Rosie could not be filmed in Slad, where the story takes place, as the village had changed too much? ... that Sciota Brook is only 2 miles (3.2 km) long but flows through three counties in Pennsylvania? ... that the elm seed bug produces an unpleasant smell reminiscent of bitter almonds? ... that during the height of the Cold War, an American visiting Russia received a seven-year sentence for spying? ... that Chen Junsheng's investigative report resulted in his superior losing his job and getting "promoted"? ... that horse carcasses, and trash from three of New York City's boroughs, were once processed at Barren Island, Brooklyn? 00:00, 30 January 2018 (UTC) Winter, Pieter Breughel the Younger, 1633 ... that Belfast pub-owner and freemason William Braithwaite donated Winter (pictured) and Spring by Pieter Breughel the Younger to the Ulster Museum? ... that Galco's Soda Pop Stop in Los Angeles carries more than 700 different soft drinks? ... that Mesembrinella caenozoica is the first unambiguous fossil described in the fly superfamily Oestroidea? ... that the physician George Abercrombie once won a game of chess against world champion José Raúl Capablanca? ... that the Coatzacoalcos Underwater Tunnel, which took 13 years to complete, has been described as a "monument to corruption"? ... that the Houdini Museum of New York houses the world's second largest collection of "Houdiniana"? ... that Shmuel Abba Twersky's immigration to Canada from Ukraine – to serve as Makarover Rebbe of Winnipeg in the 1920s – was held up by two years of bureaucratic red tape? ... that in his review, IGN's Craig Harris called Elite Forces: Unit 77 the "perfect storm of gaming mediocrity"? 29 January 2018 12:10, 29 January 2018 (UTC) Hardenbergia comptoniana ... that the seed pods of Hardenbergia comptoniana (flowers pictured) make an audible 'pop' as they release the seed? ... that after contracting diphtheria, John Hunt believed he was one of the last cases in England to have his tonsils painted with cocaine and then removed by guillotine? ... that the Jaguar multi-stage sounding rocket was designed to be launched using a toss bombing maneuver from a B-57 bomber? ... that a Let's Save Togo protest rally in August 2012 called for a week-long sex strike by women to encourage men to oppose Togolese President Faure Gnassingbé? ... that prior to serving as executive fashion director for Cosmopolitan and Seventeen, and as a judge for Project Runway: Junior, Aya Kanai considered careers in puppetry and fine art? ... that 50 million trees could be planted to form the Northern Forest in England? ... that Major General Miles Graham was Monty's logistics supremo in both North Africa and North-West Europe during the Second World War? ... that passengers traveling to the 1939 New York World's Fair via the World's Fair subway line paid the standard five-cent fare to board, but had to pay the fare again on arrival? 00:00, 29 January 2018 (UTC) Queens Building ... that the Queens Building (pictured) at Heathrow Airport was one of the most visited London attractions in 1956? ... that Doug McMurdy was the inaugural winner of the Red Tilson Trophy, given to the most outstanding player in the Ontario Hockey League each season? ... that "What a Beautiful Name" represents the first Grammy nomination for Hillsong Worship? ... that SCA1 was the first genetic defect found to cause ataxia? ... that activist Mandisa Thomas was recognized in the bill officially proclaiming October 15, 2017, as the 16th annual celebration of California Freethought Day? ... that the Aequare was a remotely piloted vehicle intended to be used by F-4 Phantom II fighter-bombers to find and designate targets? ... that in the 1937 program The Three Garridebs, Louis Hector became the first actor to portray Sherlock Holmes on television? ... that a website run by Digiday generates random absurd Twitter bios followed by profanity-laced commentary? 28 January 2018 12:00, 28 January 2018 (UTC) Star singers in 2014 ... that "Stern über Bethlehem" is a German song created in 1964 and often sung by star singers (pictured)? ... that Wang Zhongyu was one of China's most powerful figures in the 1990s, with authority over reforming state-owned enterprises? ... that over seven hours of rain delays resulted in the 1998 NAPA 500 becoming the first night race held at Atlanta Motor Speedway? ... that Rome's first emperor, Augustus, adopted his grandsons Lucius and Gaius? ... contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 73 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2018/January responseCode 3 200 