lcmikquecgmguikewcucmmgkvoakucpayeeixmps length 6 134491 page 9649 "WP:AFH" redirects here. For the user group also known as "abuse filter helper", see Wikipedia:Edit filter helper. About Wikipedia Administration FAQ Contributing Tips Tasks Tutorial Help menu Directories Cheatsheet Asking questions Help desk Reference desk Teahouse Shortcuts WP:Q WP:? WP:AQ Welcome to Wikipedia! This page lists some locations where you can ask questions or make comments. Once you have chosen an appropriate place to ask your question, follow the instructions on how to post your question. A helpful volunteer will answer your question shortly. Please note that misplaced questions may not be answered quickly. See the request directory for a comprehensive directory of interactive services and assistance that can be requested on Wikipedia. Comments about specific articles Each article has its own talk page to ask questions or make constructive comments regarding its content, when you're viewing the article, just click on the Talk tab at the top of the page. Bear in mind, however, that Wikipedia is not a forum for discussion about the topics of articles – comments should be limited to the article's content. Questions about using and contributing to Wikipedia Your question might have already been answered in the frequently asked questions. Otherwise: The Teahouse is a friendly space for new editors to ask questions with answers from experienced editors. The help desk is the main place for asking questions and also where to turn when all else fails. The village pump is the forum for discussion of Wikipedia's more complex project-wide technical issues, policies, proposals, and operations. Media copyright questions covers the use of images and other media on Wikipedia. Live chat help For assistance with Wikipedia-related queries (not general factual questions), you can join the #wikipedia-en-help IRC chat room for live assistance. Personal help on your talk page Click here to ask for help on your talk page; a volunteer will visit you there. Otherwise, write {{Help me}} and your question on a talk page (preferably your own talk page) and a volunteer will assist you there. If your request specifically requires administrator assistance, place {{Admin help}} on your talk page. Factual questions The reference desk is like a library reference desk where you can ask questions about any topic, except Wikipedia itself. The editors there will try to answer your questions or point you in the direction of the information you need. e.g. "What country has the world's largest fishing fleet?" The reference desk is divided into several subject areas: Computing – Entertainment – Language – Humanities – Mathematics – Science If you're unsure of the exact area, use Miscellaneous. Contact Wikipedia Contact us is a page that describes how and where to contact Wikipedia directly for a variety of reasons. v t e Wikipedia community For a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news, see the Community portal. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard. General community topics Administration News The Signpost Goings-on In the media Meetups Mailing lists Wikipedians Statistics The Wikipedia Library Centralized discussion Village pump Idea lab Policy Proposals Technical Miscellaneous WMF Holidays Bots Contents and grading Requested articles Most-wanted articles Images needing articles Articles needing images Articles for creation WP:AFC/R Creation Help Vital articles Articles for improvement Peer review Good article nominations Featured article candidates Lists Pictures Topics Article translation Pages Main Page Errors WikiProjects and collaborations Directory Culture and the arts Geographical History and society Science, technology and engineering Wikipedia assistance and tasks Patrols Recent changes Counter-Vandalism Unit Version 1.0 Editorial Team Accessibility Organizations category Awards and feedback Reward board Contests A nice cup of tea and a sit down Charitableness WikiLove Compliment before criticism Kindness Campaign Thanks! Maintenance tasks Task Center Open tasks Backlog Category Admin category Edit requests Category Database reports Category tracker Dusty articles Special pages New pages Recent changes Controversial issues Administrators and noticeboards Administrators' noticeboard Incidents Edit warring Vandalism Admin dashboard Admin requests Closure Page protection User permissions Sockpuppets Open proxies Revision deletion Oversight Request Usernames Changing Title blacklist OTRS Bureaucrats' Requests for adminship and bureaucratship Arbitration Committee Requests Enforcement Content dispute resolution Requests for comment Third opinion Dispute resolution noticeboard Biographies of living persons Conflict of interest External links Fringe theories Neutral point of view No original research Reliable sources Other noticeboards and assistance Regional notice boards Requests for help Category Asking questions Teahouse Help desk Reference desk Adopt-a-user Copyright assistance Copyright investigations Text problems Media questions Resource requests Mergers History mergers Moves Page importation Spam Blacklist Whitelist Bots Education General sanctions Editor sanctions Long-term abuse Deletion discussions Guide Admin Today Articles Templates Files Categories Redirects Miscellany Speedy Proposed BLP Review Undeletion Arguments to avoid Arguments to make Article Rescue Elections and votings Requests for comment (meta) Wikimedia Foundation elections WP Democracy Voting is not evil Milestones Directories, indexes, and summaries Departments Edit summary legend Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Abbreviations Help Manual of Style Simplified Rules Five pillars Policies Guidelines Shortcuts Templates Citation templates Tips Today Tools Wiki markup Media Category Templates v t e Noticeboards Wikipedia's centralized discussion, request, and help venues. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard. For a related set of forums which do not function as noticeboards see formal review processes. General Administrators Main Incidents Bots Bureaucrats Centralized discussion Closure requests Education Interface admins Main Page errors Open proxies VRT Oversight User permissions Articles and content Biographies of living persons Copyrights Questions on media Problems Current events Dispute resolution External links Fringe theories Neutral point of view Original research Pending changes Reliable sources Resource requests Scalable vector graphics Spam Blacklist Whitelist Style Titleblacklist Translation Page handling History merges Mergers Splits Moves Protection Importation XfD Articles Redirects Categories Templates Files Miscellany Undeletion User conduct Conflict of interest Contributor copyright Edit warring and 3RR Sanctions Personal restrictions General sanctions Contentious topics Sockpuppets Usernames (Requests for comment) Vandalism Other Arbitration Committee noticeboard Requests Enforcement Edit filters Requested False positives Questions Help desk Teahouse Reference desk New articles Requests for comment Village pump Policy Technical Proposals Idea lab WMF Miscellaneous WikiProject proposals Discussions for discussion Category:Wikipedia noticeboards v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Questions responseCode 3 200 