lelivmqcdidonelmzegoloxmzeemwkjmbqveuszm length 5 85698 page 2448 Did you know mentions and links to new articles, articles expanded by a factor of five within the last seven days, and newly-promoted good articles. To propose a new fact for this template, make a suggestion on the talk page. To report an error, see Main Page errors. Admins: Before updating please protect the featured image. After updating please purge the cache of the Main Page so that the updated version appears. Next update DYK queue status There are currently 6 filled queues – all good, for now! v t e Earliest time for next DYK update: 00:00, 21 November 2023 (UTC) Current time: 21:50, 20 November 2023 (UTC) Update frequency: once every 24 hours Last updated: 21 hours ago( verify reset purge ) Hooks Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Adult Balkan terrapin ... that hatchling Balkan terrapins are only 3 to 4 centimetres (1.2 to 1.6 in) in length, while adults (example pictured) can grow as long as 25 cm (9.8 in)? ... that Rush Munro's, New Zealand's oldest ice creamery, has used the same recipes since 1926? ... that the mean sea level observed by the Newlyn Tidal Observatory from 1915 to 1921 defined the reference for height measurement in Great Britain? ... that Orchard MRT station had a dome over the station's circular concourse until it was removed in 2008? ... that there are only 4 locations left of Boloco, which once had 22 burrito restaurants throughout the northeastern United States? ... that Jeʹvida is the first feature film in the Skolt Sámi language? ... that the novel Minor Detail is based on a true story of a 1949 gang rape and murder of a young Arab Bedouin-Palestinian girl by Israeli soldiers? ... that people were scammed on New Zealand television by the host of You've Been Scammed? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Template:Did_you_know responseCode 3 200 