lesqjktszchadiochowmoiskpmuadmnokmompmqc length 6 279097 page 10019 Battle in the 2022 invasion of Ukraine This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article's lead section may be too short to adequately summarize the key points. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. (November 2023) This article needs to be updated. The reason given is: add in withdrawal of Russian forces, liberation by Ukraine, and an aftermath section. Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (November 2023) (template removal help) Battle of Lebedyn Part of the battle of Sumy in the northern Ukraine offensive of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine Bombed out building in Lebedyn, 7 March Date 26 February – 26 March 2022 (1 month) Location Lebedyn, Sumy Oblast, Ukraine Result Ukrainian victory Belligerents Russia Ukraine v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia The battle of Lebedyn was a series of clashes that began on 26 February 2022 at the city of Lebedyn, Sumy Raion, Sumy Oblast, as a part of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. Timeline[edit] 26–27 February[edit] On the evening of 26 February, Ukrainian forces held the Russian Forces on the outskirts of the city. The Russians reportedly suffered significant losses. At 22:45, a battle began in Kamiane.[1] Five soldiers were brought to the hospitals of Lebedyn on the morning of 27 February. Almost all of them were wounded in and around Batiutenko Street. According to the Regional Centre of Emergency Care and Disaster Medicine, no wounded civilians arrived.[2] On the night of 27 February, 37-year-old Olexandr Smilian, born in Kapustyntsi, died in the battle of Lebedyn.[3] 28 February[edit] In the afternoon, a column of Russian military vehicles went to Trostianets coming from the direction of Lebedyn. About 18:00, Ukrainian troops reportedly destroyed a Russian military base at Kulychka [uk] near Lebedyn with a Bayraktar TB2 UAV. They reportedly destroyed 96-100 tanks, 20 "Grad" multiple rocket launcher systems and eight tanker trucks. There were no civilians in the area.[4][5][6] In Shtepivka [uk], a local man died attempting to get into an abandoned military vehicle that had been mined.[7] 1–3 March[edit] On the nights of the 1 and 2 of March, Ukrainian forces claimed to have destroyed some 100 Russian military vehicles, mainly tanks and armored personnel carriers (APCs), at Bishkyn village near Lebedyn.[8] On the afternoon of 3 March, the 93rd Independent Kholodnyi Yar Mechanized Brigade [uk] neutralized the Russian troops at Moskovskyi Bobryk in Lebedyn district.[9] Several T-72B3 and T-80U tanks and APCs were disabled. While in the village, the Russians looted the local shops and private households and burnt the car of the head of the village.[10] About 21:00 on 3 March, the Russian troops resumed shelling Sumy and other locations in Sumy Oblast, in particular Nedryhailiv, Boromlia, Bezdryk and Lebedyn.[10][11][12] 4–7 March[edit] Lebedyn was completely cut off from electricity for the 4 and 5 of March. On 5 March at 7 a.m., civilians heard an air raid alarm in Lebedyn as the Russians began shelling the city.[12] The explosions blew out windows in multistoried buildings. The artillery shelling went on all day long.[6] An electric substation, the Lebedyn bakery, and a gas station were destroyed by Russian shelling.[13] By the evening of 5 March, Russians had been reported to have captured civilians driving by cars through the countryside. Dmytro Zhyvytskyi, the Head of the Military Administration, said that people could not leave Lebedyn, Sumy, Okhtyrka and Trostianets at the moment because "the Russian troops rob and occasionally shoot at the cars of peaceful Ukrainians."[citation needed] On the evening of 5 March, a column of Russian tanks arrived at Lebedyn having seized the village of Stanove near Trostianets along the way. They placed tanks in every yard along the central and side streets. According to the Head of the Military Administration Dmytro Zhyvytskyi, Russians took away people's cellphones. They broke into houses asking for food and a bath. Thus they were sheltering themselves with a human shield almost all day long.[14] According to the Military Administration, Russian artillery shelling and the airstrikes of 6 March left many inhabitants of Lebedyn without electricity. The prosecution launched a pre-trial investigation into the destruction of the Lebedyn bakery by the strikes of Russian military planes.[6] On 7 March, the electricity supply to Lebedyn was partially restored.[6] 8–9 March[edit] On the night of 8 to 9 March, the Russian air forces attacked Lebedyn. Two houses in Shevchenka Street were ruined. Five people, two children among them, were retrieved from the debris. The officers of the 5th State Fire and Rescue Brigade, who were in charge that night, worked at the site from 01:45 on 9 March.[14] 10–11 March[edit] By the 10 of March, the village of Vorozhba in Lebedyn district had been occupied by Russian forces. According to the Head of the Military Administration Dmytro Zhyvytskyi, Russian soldiers drove people to the streets, robbed them, looted and set fire to local houses. The Russians also pulled people out of cellars where many were hiding. "They are shielding themselves with peaceful locals against the Bayraktars," Zhyvytskyi said.[6] On the night of 11 March, the Russian troops shelled houses in Kerdylivschyna killing two locals – Vasyl Masliuk and Valeriy Sukhanov.[14] 12–13 March[edit] "Green corridors" for evacuation functioned in Sumy Oblast on 12 March. People could go from Sumy, Trostianets, Konotop, Lebedyn, Velyka Pysarivka, and Krasnopillia through Romny to Poltava. According to the Head of the Military Administration Dmytro Zhyvytskyi, they finally managed to reach an agreement about Lebedyn, which had no electricity or communication at that point. At 9:00, a column of private transport and buses gathered at Lebedyn city council. The route was from Lebedyn via Shtepivka, Nedryhailiv, Korovyntsi, Romny, Andriyashivka, Lokhvytsia, Lubny and Poltava. Overall, 28 vehicles with 83 civilians and four buses with 52 civilians left Lebedyn.[15][16] As of 13 March, 22,500 civilians in Sumy Oblast had no electricity. According to the Military Administration, shelling damaged the power lines in Okhtyrka, Trostianets, Lebedyn and Sumy.[17] 15 March[edit] On March 15, the Humanitarian Corridors worked in Sumy region on five routes - from Sumy, Trostyanets, Lebedin, Konotop and Shostka. The final destination of all routes - Lubny in Poltava region.[18] 17 March[edit] From March 17 to March 25, the village of Mali Vystope was occupied. They were destroyed from the Russian military both apartment buildings and private. Local college has been caused by considerable damage. Russian invaders have been cited for eight days. Living the village on March 25, they fired at the tanks.[19] 18 March[edit] Humanitarian corridors worked in Sumy region on March 18. It was possible to leave the Great Pisarivka, Trostyanets, Krasnopillya, Sumy, Lebedinsky and Konotop communities.[20] Lebedin could leave on personal transport and buses from 9 am from the square near the city cou contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Battle_of_Lebedyn responseCode 3 200 