lgsowgfewoxgjsvekakqlifglgzqmaaiwovclgwm length 6 104798 page 4723 Type of Wikipedia article "WP:GA" redirects here. For the country WikiProject, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Georgia (country). For the U.S. state WikiProject, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Georgia (U.S. state). Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Vital articles Featured content Good articles Indices A–Z index Reference Culture Geography Health History Human activities Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Main Criteria Instructions Nominations Discussion Reassessment Report Good articles in Wikipedia A good article (GA) is an article that meets a core set of editorial standards, the good article criteria, passing through the good article nomination process successfully. They are well-written, contain factually accurate and verifiable information, are broad in coverage, neutral in point of view, stable, and illustrated, where possible, by relevant images with suitable copyright licenses. Good articles do not have to be as comprehensive as featured articles (FA), but they should not omit any major facets of the topic: a comparison of the criteria for good and featured articles describes further differences. Currently, out of the 6,748,137 articles on Wikipedia, 38,773 are categorized as good articles (about 1 in 175), most of which are listed below. An additional 6,405 are listed as featured articles (about 1 in 1,060) and 4,227 as featured lists (about 1 in 1,600). Because articles are only included in one category, a good article that has been promoted to featured status is removed from the good articles category. Adding good and featured articles and lists together gives a total of 49,405 articles (about 1 in 137). A small plus sign inside a circle () in the top-right corner of an article's page indicates that the article is good. The process for designating an article as a good article is intentionally straightforward. A significant contributor to an article may nominate it if they believe it meets the good article criteria. An impartial editor may review it from the queue of good article nominations. If it meets the criteria, it is added to the list of good articles below. There are instructions for nominators and reviewers. Similarly, anyone who believes that an article no longer meets the good article criteria may propose to delist it by following the instructions for reassessment. More good content is available at Wikipedia:Good topics. Shortcuts WP:GA WP:GOOD Good article tools: Good articles Good article nominations Good article reassessment Good article instructions Good article criteria Good article report Good article statistics Good article mismatches Delisted good articles Wikipedians by good article nominations Project page GAN Backlog Drives Related pages Good topics Featured articles Former featured articles Vital articles Did you know Recently listed good articles: Hypericum bupleuroides — Two for the Knight — Ramsay, Melvin — Electron diffraction — Wood-pasture hypothesis — Braylyan, Filipp — Pied cuckoo-dove — MS Adzharistan — WXLV-TV — Panzer Dragoon Mini — Snowy plover — The Messenger (2018) — Ameerega munduruku — John Montgomery Ward's perfect game — M1841 6-pounder field gun Random Good Article of the Day: 2021 EFL League Two play-off final Read a random good article View the entire list of all good articles List of good articles, arranged by topic Agriculture, food, and drink Agriculture, food, and drink Art and architecture Art Architecture Engineering and technology Computing and engineering Transport Geography and places Geography Places History World history Royalty, nobility, and heraldry Language and literature Language and literature Mathematics Mathematics and mathematicians Media and drama Film Television Media and drama Music Albums Classical compositions Songs Other music articles Natural sciences Biology and medicine Chemistry and materials science Earth science Physics and astronomy Philosophy and religion Philosophy Religion Social sciences and society Culture, sociology, and psychology Education Economics and business Law Magazines and print journalism Politics and government Sports and recreation Football Baseball Basketball Cricket Hockey Motorsport Pro wrestling Recreation Multi-sport event Other sports Video games Video games Warfare Armies and military units Battles, exercises, and conflicts Military aircraft Military decorations and memorials Military people Warships and naval units Weapons, equipment, and buildings Click any of the topics above for a list of good articles on that topic. A list of articles needing cleanup associated with this project is available. See also the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Good_articles responseCode 3 200 