liympgscoezkqcusaqbkpqteqsdmykpkzmhagkto length 6 213305 page 10028 Hypothetical situation This article's lead section may be too short to adequately summarize the key points. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. (July 2023) Schrödinger's cat (1935) presents a cat that is in a superposition of alive and dead states, depending on a random quantum event. It illustrates the counter-intuitive implications of Bohr's Copenhagen interpretation when applied to everyday objects.[1] A thought experiment is a hypothetical situation in which a hypothesis, theory,[a] or principle is laid out for the purpose of thinking through its consequences. History[edit] The ancient Greek δείκνυμι, deiknymi, 'thought experiment', "was the most ancient pattern of mathematical proof", and existed before Euclidean mathematics,[2] where the emphasis was on the conceptual, rather than on the experimental part of a thought-experiment. Johann Witt-Hansen established that Hans Christian Ørsted was the first to use the term Gedankenexperiment (from German: 'thought experiment') circa 1812.[3][4] Ørsted was also the first to use the equivalent term Gedankenversuch in 1820. By 1883, Ernst Mach used the term Gedankenexperiment in a different way, to denote exclusively the imaginary conduct of a real experiment that would be subsequently performed as a real physical experiment by his students.[5] Physical and mental experimentation could then be contrasted: Mach asked his students to provide him with explanations whenever the results from their subsequent, real, physical experiment differed from those of their prior, imaginary experiment. The English term thought experiment was coined (as a calque) from Mach's Gedankenexperiment, and it first appeared in the 1897 English translation of one of Mach's papers.[6] Prior to its emergence, the activity of posing hypothetical questions that employed subjunctive reasoning had existed for a very long time (for both scientists and philosophers). The irrealis moods are ways to categorize it or to speak about it. This helps explain the extremely wide and diverse range of the application of the term "thought experiment" once it had been introduced into English. Galileo's thought experiment concerned the outcome (c) of attaching a small stone (a) to a larger one (b) Galileo's demonstration that falling objects must fall at the same rate regardless of their masses was a significant step forward in the history of modern science. This is widely thought[7] to have been a straightforward physical demonstration, involving climbing up the Leaning Tower of Pisa and dropping two heavy weights off it, whereas in fact, it was a logical demonstration, using the 'thought experiment' technique. The 'experiment' is described by Galileo in Discorsi e dimostrazioni matematiche (1638) (from Italian: 'Mathematical Discourses and Demonstrations') thus: Salviati. If then we take two bodies whose natural speeds are different, it is clear that on uniting the two, the more rapid one will be partly retarded by the slower, and the slower will be somewhat hastened by the swifter. Do you not agree with me in this opinion? Simplicio. You are unquestionably right. Salviati. But if this is true, and if a large stone moves with a speed of, say, eight while a smaller moves with a speed of four, then when they are united, the system will move with a speed less than eight; but the two stones when tied together make a stone larger than that which before moved with a speed of eight. Hence the heavier body moves with less speed than the lighter; an effect which is contrary to your supposition. Thus you see how, from your assumption that the heavier body moves more rapidly than the lighter one, I infer that the heavier body moves more slowly.[8] Uses[edit] The common goal of a thought experiment is to explore the potential consequences of the principle in question: A thought experiment is a device with which one performs an intentional, structured process of intellectual deliberation in order to speculate, within a specifiable problem domain, about potential consequents (or antecedents) for a designated antecedent (or consequent).[9] Given the structure of the experiment, it may not be possible to perform it, and even if it could be performed, there need not be an intention to perform it. Examples of thought experiments include Schrödinger's cat, illustrating quantum indeterminacy through the manipulation of a perfectly sealed environment and a tiny bit of radioactive substance, and Maxwell's demon, which attempts to demonstrate the ability of a hypothetical finite being to violate the 2nd law of thermodynamics. It is a common element of science-fiction stories.[10] Thought experiments, which are well-structured, well-defined hypothetical questions that employ subjunctive reasoning (irrealis moods) – "What might happen (or, what might have happened) if . . . " – have been used to pose questions in philosophy at least since Greek antiquity, some pre-dating Socrates.[11] In physics and other sciences many thought experiments date from the 19th and especially the 20th Century, but examples can be found at least as early as Galileo. In thought experiments, we gain new information by rearranging or reorganizing already known empirical data in a new way and drawing new (a priori) inferences from them or by looking at these data from a different and unusual perspective. In Galileo's thought experiment, for example, the rearrangement of empirical experience consists of the original idea of combining bodies of different weights.[12] Thought experiments have been used in philosophy (especially ethics), physics, and other fields (such as cognitive psychology, history, political science, economics, social psychology, law, organizational studies, marketing, and epidemiology). In law, the synonym "hypothetical" is frequently used for such experiments. Regardless of their intended goal, all thought experiments display a patterned way of thinking that is designed to allow us to explain, predict and control events in a better and more productive way. Theoretical consequences[edit] In terms of their theoretical consequences, thought experiments generally: challenge (or even refute) a prevailing theory, often involving the device known as reductio ad absurdum, (as in Galileo's original argument, a proof by contradiction), confirm a prevailing theory, establish a new theory, or simultaneously refute a prevailing theory and establish a new theory through a process of mutual exclusion Practical applications[edit] Thought experiments can produce some very important and different outlooks on previously unknown or unaccepted theories. However, they may make those theories themselves irrelevant, and could possibly create new problems that are just as difficult, or possibly more difficult to resolve. In terms of their practical application, thought experiments are generally created to: challenge the prevailing status quo (which includes activities such as correcting misinformation (or misapprehension), identify flaws in the argument(s) presented, to preserve (for the long-term) objectively established fact, and to refute specific assertions that some particular thing is permissible, forbidden, known, believed, possible, or necessary); extrapolate beyond (or interpolate within) the boundaries of already established fact; predict and forecast the (otherwise) indefinite and unknowable future; explain the past; the retrodiction, postdiction and hindcasting of the (otherwise) indefinite and unknowable past; facilitate decision making, choice, and strategy selection; solve problems, and generate ideas; move current (often insoluble) problems into another, more helpful, and more productive problem space (e.g.: functional fixedness); attribute causation, preventability, blame, and responsibility for specific outcomes; assess culpability and compensatory damages in social and legal contexts; ensure the repeat of past success; or examine the extent to which past events might have occurred differently. ensure the (future) avoidance of past failures Types[edit] Temporal representation of a prefactual thought experiment.[13] Generally speaking, there are seven types of thought experiments in which one reasons from causes to effects, or effects to causes:[14] Prefactual[edit] Prefactual (before the fact) thought experiments – the term prefactual was coined by Lawrence J. Sanna in 1998[15] – speculate on possible future outcomes, given the present, and ask "What will be the outcome if event E occurs?" Counterfactual[edit] Temporal representation of a counterfactual thought experiment.[16] Counterfactual (contrary to established fact) thought experiments – the term counterfactual was coined by Nelson Goodman in 1947,[17] extending Roderick Chisholm's (1946) notion of a "contrary-to-fact conditional"[18] – speculate on the possible outcomes of a different past;[19] and ask "What might have happened if A had happened instead of B?" (e.g., "If Isaac Newton and Gottfried Leibniz had cooperated with each other, what would mathematics look like today?").[20] The study of counterfactual speculation has increasingly engaged the interest of scholars in a wide range of domains such as philosophy,[21] psychology,[22] cognitive psychology,[23] history,[24] political science,[25] economics,[26] social psychology,[27] law,[28] organizational theory,[29] marketing,[30] and epidemiology.[31] Semifactual[edit] Temporal representation of a semifactual thought experiment.[16] Semifactual thought experiments – the term semifactual was coined by Nelson Goodman in 1947[17][32] – speculate on the extent to which things might have remained the same, despite there being a different past; and asks the question Even though X happened instead of E, would Y have still occurred? (e.g., Even if the goalie had moved left, rather than right, could he have intercepted a ball that was traveling at such a speed?). Semifac contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Thought_experiment responseCode 3 200 