loekhsgsksgaisjabimsocsmggyololmacqijopi length 6 183297 page 10017 Wikipedia project content guideline This page is a guideline for project and project talk pages. For information about WikiProjects, see Wikipedia:WikiProject. This page documents an English Wikipedia project content guideline. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page. Shortcuts WP:PRJ WP:NS4 WP:WPNS This guideline in a nutshell: Project pages are for information or discussion about Wikipedia. They should be used to allow Wikipedians to better participate in the community, and not used to excess for unrelated purposes nor to bring the project into disrepute. Wikipedia guidelines Guidelines list Policies list Behavioral Assume good faith Conflict of interest Courtesy vanishing Disruptive editing Don't bite the newcomers Don't disrupt to make a point Etiquette Gaming the system User pages Other behavioral guidelines WMF friendly space policy Discussions Talk page guidelines Signatures Content Citing sources External links Reliable sources medicine Fringe theories Non-free content Offensive material Don't copy long texts Don't create hoaxes Patent nonsense Other content guidelines Editing Article size Be bold Edit summary Understandability Other editing guidelines Organization Categories, lists, templates Categorization Disambiguation Style Manual of Style contents lists tables Deletion Deletion process Speedy keep Deletion guidelines for administrators Project content Project pages WikiProjects Templates User pages User boxes Shortcuts Subpages Other Naming conventions Notability v t e Wikipedia data structure Namespaces Subject namespaces Talk namespaces 0 (Main/Article) Talk 1 2 User User talk 3 4 Wikipedia Wikipedia talk 5 6 File File talk 7 8 MediaWiki MediaWiki talk 9 10 Template Template talk 11 12 Help Help talk 13 14 Category Category talk 15 100 Portal Portal talk 101 118 Draft Draft talk 119 710 TimedText TimedText talk 711 828 Module Module talk 829 Deprecated 2300 Gadget Gadget talk 2301 2302 Gadget definition Gadget definition talk 2303 Not installed 90 Thread Thread talk 91 92 Summary Summary talk 93 108 Book Book talk 109 442 Course Course talk 443 444 Institution Institution talk 445 446 Education Program Education Program talk 447 2600 Topic 2601 Virtual namespaces -1 Special -2 Media Current list (API call) The project namespace or Wikipedia namespace is a namespace consisting of administration pages with information or discussion about Wikipedia. Pages in this namespace will always have the prefix Wikipedia:. They can also be reached by alias WP: or the standard (for any MediaWiki site) prefix Project:. Its namespace number is four (4). Terminology Project pages or Wikipedia pages are pages in the Wikipedia and Wikipedia talk namespaces. WikiProject pages, which are included in the Wikipedia namespace, are usually referred to as WikiProject pages to distinguish them from project pages as a whole. Meta – Some people refer to pages in the project namespace as meta pages. However, this can be confusing, because Meta is actually the name of the site dedicated to all Wikimedia projects at meta.wikimedia.org. Content Further information: Wikipedia:Policies and guidelines § Not part of the encyclopedia, and Wikipedia:Be bold § Wikipedia namespace See also: Wikipedia:User pages § What may I not have in my user pages? Shortcuts WP:PRJC WP:PRJSD Pages within the "Project namespace" themselves are not part of the encyclopedia proper. These administrative pages are intended for use by editors or by automated tools for the organization and governance of the encyclopedia. Consequently, they do not generally need to conform to the same content protocols or style conventions as articles. Nevertheless, these pages, as with all pages, should be accessible and must comply with Wikipedia's conduct and legal policies. The project namespace is not a free web host and should not be used as a long-term archive to host pages that look like articles. Articles in the project namespace under construction may be moved to the draft namespace or Userspace draft allowing time for their development and feedback before being moved to Wikipedia's mainspace. Stalled or abandoned drafts and pages in the project namespace that violate policies applicable to non-content pages may be subject to deletion. Editors may not violate copyrights or harass anywhere on Wikipedia. Under the criteria for speedy deletion, these types of pages are subject to expeditious deletion. See below for more information. Pages within project namespace Shortcut WP:PAGES The project namespace pages are organized according to their function within the overall project schema. This includes Wikipedia official policies and guidelines, process pages, discussion pages, optional essays, maintenance pages, informative pages, and historical pages. For lists of pages in the project namespace, see: Wikipedia:Directories and indexes – a handy list of Wikipedia's directories and indexes. Wikipedia:Department directory – a list of the different administrative divisions of Wikipedia. Wikipedia:Editor's index to Wikipedia – an enormous list of the Wikipedia community, intended to help find anything not in the encyclopedia itself. A main gateway for the project namespace is Community portal. The Community Portal includes categorized links to the more commonly used pages related to the project. A link to the Community Portal page is available in the sidebar. Policies and guidelines pages Shortcut WP:POLICYPAGES Policies and guidelines pages describe Wikipedia's best practice and clarify principles that are widely accepted by the community and have been through the Wikipedia review process. These pages are marked with the {{policy}}, {{guideline}} or {{MoS guideline}} template. For summaries of key policies, see List of policies. For summaries of key guidelines, see List of guidelines. For summaries of guidelines about Wikipedia's house style, see the Manual of Style contents page. For information on editing policies or guidelines see Edits to policies and guidelines. Category:Wikipedia policies – contains important rules that are widely accepted and procedures for important processes such as deletion; there are relatively few of those. Category:Wikipedia guidelines – contains consensual rules-of-thumb that are not strict, but are considered by most editors to be useful most of the time. Category:Wikipedia Manual of Style – contains style guidelines widely accepted among editors. Process pages Shortcut WP:PROCEPAGES Process pages help facilitate application of the policies and guidelines governing all Wikipedia pages (e.g., Wikipedia:Articles for deletion). See Wikipedia processes for details. Category:Wikipedia processes Information and discussions Many pages in the Wikipedia namespace have nothing to do with rules or implementation of those rules, and thus do not belong in the above categories. See Wikipedia:The difference between policies, guidelines and essays for more information. Discussion and noticeboard pages Shortcut WP:DISPAGES Some pages are designed for discussions, such as the Village pumps. Others serve as noticeboards to draw attention to discussions taking place elsewhere, such as the centralized discussions page and various requests for comments pages. While many of these pages operate like talk pages, some of them have posting rules (at the top of the page) which may be administratively enforced, and they also have their own talk pages, usually about the management of the noticeboard or other process in question. To ask a question or make a request, see the request directory. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard. Category:Wikipedia discussion Category:Wikipedia noticeboards Category:Wikipedia requests Maintenance pages Shortcut WP:MAINTPAGES Maintenance pages are used to help facilitate the organization and clean-up of articles to bring them up to encyclopedic standards. These editor- and bot-generated pages typically contain articles and other pages requiring maintenance or attention. (e.g., Wikipedia:Dusty articles). The Special namespace also contains bot generated maintenance reports (e.g. Special:UncategorizedPages). See Wikipedia maintenance for details. Category:Wikipedia maintenance Special:SpecialPages How-to and information pages Shortcuts WP:INFOPAGES WP:HOWTOPAGES WP:SUPPLEMENTAL Informative and instructional pages are typically edited by the community; while not policies or guidelines themselves, they are intended to supplement or clarify Wikipedia guidelines, policies, or other Wikipedia processes and practices that are communal norms. Where essay pages offer advice or opinions through viewpoints, information pages should supplement or clarify technical or factual information about Wikipedia impartially. In comparison to policies and guidelines, information pages, like essay pages, have a limited status, and can reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. These pages are typically marked with the {{Information page}}, {{Wikipedia how-to}}, or {{Supplement}}[a] template. There is a large amount of overlap between the Help namespace (which provides mainly technical information) and the Wikipedia namespace (which provides mainly procedural information and interpretation). For this reason, redirects and hatnotes are often set up between these two namespaces. See Help:About help pages for more information. For a listing of how-to and information pages, see the help directory. Category:Wikipedia information pages Category:Wikipedia how-to Category:Wikipedia supplemental pages Essay pages Shortcut WP:ESSAYPAGES Essays about Wikipedia may be written by anyone; some represent widespread norms, others only represent minority viewpoints. Essays can be long monologues or short theses, serious or funny, informative or opinionated. Ess contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Project_namespace responseCode 3 200 