lqpalqxcecuslctckkyevqsqqergtgcmkedezags length 6 245762 page 10007 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Did you know... 31 May 2022 00:00, 31 May 2022 (UTC) The Most Dangerous Animal in the World ... that The Most Dangerous Animal in the World (pictured) was an exhibit at the Bronx Zoo in 1963? ... that the judging committee of the Manga Taishō, an annual manga prize, is composed primarily of bookstore workers? ... that Indian women's hockey player Elvera Britto and her sisters would stitch their own team uniforms while playing in the 1960s? ... that XO, Kitty, based on the film series To All the Boys I've Loved Before, is planned to be the first Netflix series to be spun off from a Netflix original film? ... that Austrian doctor Paul Bargehr was decried for exposing healthy Indonesians to the leprosy bacillus in his experiments? ... that "Segne, Vater, diese Gaben", a round for saying grace of unknown authorship, has appeared in German collections for kindergarten, schools and events for young people? ... that during the Qarmatian invasion of Iraq, the Abbasid Caliphate raised an army of more than 40,000 men to protect Baghdad, but did not engage the few thousand Qarmatians in battle? ... that shortly before sports shooter William Riedell was to compete in the 1936 Olympics, he had his pistols confiscated by the New York police because the precinct chief had decided there were "too many guns"? 30 May 2022 00:00, 30 May 2022 (UTC) Kyiv Symphony Orchestra at Kurhaus Wiesbaden ... that the Kyiv Symphony Orchestra brought music by three Ukrainian composers to concert halls in Poland and Germany in April 2022, including the Berlin Philharmonie and the Kurhaus Wiesbaden (pictured)? ... that Zimbabwean cricketer Mary-Anne Musonda became the first woman to score a century on her Women's One Day International debut while also captaining her team? ... that due to U.S. support for Saudi-led operations in Yemen, both Saudi Arabia and the United States may be held responsible for war crimes? ... that Margaret Ramsay-Hale has worked as a judge in three countries? ... that the stock hard drive of IBM's Personal System/2 Model 30 was twice as slow as its predecessor? ... that C. N. H. Lock was a British aerodynamicist, after whom the Lock number is named? ... that the newly named Cirsium funkiae honors the describer's mentor, Vicki Funk, and the plant's funky appearance? ... that the staff of a Georgia TV station thought they were "really something" for shooting the moon? 29 May 2022 00:00, 29 May 2022 (UTC) Puente de Fierro ... that it is rumored that the Puente de Fierro (pictured) in Mexico was designed by Gustave Eiffel? ... that Thomas Seavey Hall's banjo signals caused a judge to declare him the father of American automatic electric railroad signaling? ... that Brassey's, "said to be the oldest established name in defence publishing", traces its history back to The Naval Annual in 1886? ... that Bea Alonzo had her breakout role at the age of 15 in the 2002 drama series Kay Tagal Kang Hinintay, in which she played a lawyer? ... that after his soccer career, Steve Palacios enlisted in the United States Army and played for the United States Armed Forces soccer team? ... that Nutan, the lead actress of the 1951 A-rated suspense thriller Nagina, was not allowed to enter the film's premiere because she was underage? ... that Tennessee lawyer Bolton Smith was known for his work integrating African Americans into the Boy Scouts? ... that a giant breast destroying a spaceship Mark Zuckerberg in the music video for "Ay mamá" is a criticism of Meta's censorship of female nipples? 28 May 2022 00:00, 28 May 2022 (UTC) Lunch Atop a Skyscraper (1932) ... that the "most famous picture of a lunch break in New York history" (pictured) was actually a publicity stunt? ... that when Nadja Stefanoff portrayed the title role of Giordano's Fedora at the Oper Frankfurt, one reviewer complimented the brilliance and agility of her voice, assertive even when singing softly? ... that when a fire broke out next to studios of Oklahoma radio station KVSO, reporters had to rush in to report the blaze and then out to breathe fresh air? ... that Hein Eersel added "genuine Surinamese expressions" in his adaptation of the play The Barber of Seville? ... that during his mayoralty, Fiorello La Guardia appointed the first black woman judge in the United States? ... that railroad transportation executive William Phillips Hall was known as the "business millionaire evangelist"? ... that the band behind two expletive-laden UK top-five singles about Boris Johnson released a follow-up about Prince Andrew? ... that we don't know if peak beard has ended? 27 May 2022 00:00, 27 May 2022 (UTC) Göğceli Mosque ... that the Göğceli Mosque (pictured) in Turkey, constructed in 1206 with stacked planks without using nails, is still in use? ... that although George Balanchine set Raymonda Variations to musical excerpts from the ballet Raymonda, his new ballet does not follow the plot of the original? ... that ethnic broadcasting pioneer Shushma Datt was the first Canadian woman to obtain a CRTC broadcast licence? ... that the Catholic charismatic renewal movement began at a retreat for college students in 1967? ... that Moses Cohen Belinfante founded the first Dutch Jewish newspaper? ... that the TV adaptation of Life After Life was described as "bingeworthy", but also "practically plotless"? ... that Kenneth E. Fields was in command of the engineers at the Ludendorff Bridge during the Battle of Remagen? ... that the "favorable comparisons of Lenin to Confucius, Buddha, and Allah" in Dmitri Shostakovich's Loyalty were said to have "achieved new levels of ludicrous flattery"? 26 May 2022 00:00, 26 May 2022 (UTC) Magna Lykseth as Isolde in 1909 ... that Magna Lykseth appeared as Isolde (pictured) when Wagner's Tristan und Isolde was first performed at the Royal Swedish Opera in 1909? ... that Sunday-school classes were once held in the transmitter building of New Mexico radio station KCLV? ... that Scottish inventor and music teacher Anne Gunn was granted the first British patent for a board game in 1801? ... that Concurrent Computer Corporation was consumed in a "minnow-swallows-the-whale" merger during the junk bonds era, but unusually, kept its name, CEO, and headquarters? ... that Joshua George Beard was a member of the first Toronto City Council and the first Toronto School Board of Trustees? ... that until the 1970s, most shōjo manga (Japanese girls' comics) were written by men? ... that Claudia Riner was falsely accused of distributing lesbian erotica in the Kentucky House of Representatives? ... that on the day the Conrad Bangkok hotel opened in 2003, ten people climbed up its walls dressed as Spider-Man? 25 May 2022 00:00, 25 May 2022 (UTC) Village East by Angelika ... that Village East by Angelika (pictured) is the only remaining Yiddish theater building in what was once the center of New York City's Yiddish Theatre District? ... that James Edward Smith won the mayoralty of Toronto by one vote? ... that 'Til Kingdom Come, a documentary film about evangelical Christian Zionism in the United States, was blocked from airing on PBS due to its editing of a speech by Donald Trump? ... that Nazi war criminal Kurt Weigelt could not be directly employed by Deutsche Bank after World War II, so he reestablished Lufthansa? ... that the Battle of San Buenaventura was described by the Los Angeles Times as a "quirky skirmish ... that emptied the mission of wine and left its adobe walls pockmarked by cannon fire"? ... that the poet Habibi was adopted by Aq Qoyunlu ruler Ya'qub Beg as a child after he was found shepherdin contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 69 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2022/May responseCode 3 200 