lqvalexonqicfaeekkhgboosnifaegkijsfemexg length 6 146996 page 10513 Portal Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Vital articles Featured content Good articles Indices A–Z index Reference Culture Geography Health History Human activities Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Wikipedia's contents: Natural and physical sciences edit · watch In science, the term natural science refers to a rational approach to the study of the universe, which is understood as obeying rules or laws of natural origin. The term 'natural science' is also used to distinguish those fields that use the scientific method to study nature from the social sciences, which use the scientific method to study human behavior and society; and from the formal sciences, such as mathematics and logic, which use a different methodology. Physical science is an encompassing term for the branches of natural science, and science, that study non-living systems, in contrast to the biological sciences. However, the term "physical" creates an involuntary, somewhat arbitrary distinction, since many branches of physical science also study biological phenomena. The Science Portal More about Natural science and Physical science... Natural and physical sciences Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Overviews (see for all subject areas) edit · watch Main articles: Natural science and Nature See also Science, Scientific method, Scientist, Scientific misconduct, and Fields of science Biology – Anatomy (Human anatomy) • Astrobiology • Biochemistry • Bioinformatics • Biological anthropology • Biophysics • Botany • Cell biology • Computational biology • Developmental biology • Ecology • Evolutionary biology • Genetics (Molecular genetics, Population genetics) • Genomics • Marine biology • Histology • Human biology • Immunology • Microbiology • Molecular biology • Neuroscience • Origin of life • Paleontology • Parasitology • Pathology • Physiology • Taxonomy • Zoology (Entomology, Ethology) Physical sciences – Earth science • Systems theory Astronomy – Optical astronomy • Infrared astronomy • Radio astronomy • High-energy astronomy • Occultation Astronomical object – Planet • Dwarf planet • Exoplanet • Stars • Solar System • Planetary system • Constellation • Star cluster • Nebulae • Galaxies • Galaxy cluster • Black holes • Neutron stars • Supernovae Chemistry – Analytical chemistry • Atomic theory • Biochemistry • Chemical bond • Chemical equilibrium • Chemical industry • Chemical laws • Chemical reaction • Chemical formulas • Chemists • Electrochemistry • Energy • History of chemistry • Inorganic compounds • Materials science • Ion • Periodic table • pH • Phase • Polymer chemistry • Redox • Thermochemistry Matter – Atom • Compound • Molecule • Substance (Acid, Base) Chemical elements – Actinium • Aluminium • Americium • Antimony • Argon • Arsenic • Astatine • Barium • Berkelium • Beryllium • Bismuth • Bohrium • Boron • Bromine • Cadmium • Caesium • Calcium • Californium • Carbon • Cerium • Chlorine • Chromium • Cobalt • Copernicium • Copper • Curium • Darmstadtium • Dubnium • Dysprosium • Einsteinium • Erbium • Europium • Fermium • Flerovium (Ununquadium) • Fluorine • Francium • Gadolinium • Gallium • Germanium • Gold • Hafnium • Hassium • Helium • Holmium • Hydrogen • Indium • Iodine • Iridium • Iron • Krypton • Lanthanum • Lawrencium • Lead • Lithium • Livermorium (Ununhexium) • Lutetium • Magnesium • Manganese • Meitnerium • Mendelevium • Mercury • Molybdenum • Moscovium (Ununpentium) • Neodymium • Neon • Neptunium • Nickel • Nihonium (Ununtrium) • Niobium • Nitrogen • Nobelium • Oganesson (Ununoctium) • Osmium • Oxygen • Palladium • Phosphorus • Platinum • Plutonium • Polonium • Potassium • Praseodymium • Promethium • Protactinium • Radium • Radon • Rhenium • Rhodium • Roentgenium • Rubidium • Ruthenium • Rutherfordium • Samarium • Scandium • Seaborgium • Selenium • Silicon • Silver • Sodium • Strontium • Sulfur • Tantalum • Technetium • Tellurium • Tennessine (Ununseptium) • Terbium • Thallium • Thorium • Thulium • Tin • Titanium • Tungsten • Uranium • Vanadium • Xenon • Ytterbium • Yttrium • Zinc • Zirconium Physics – Atom • Atomic nucleus • Color • Elementary particle • Force • Gravitation • Mass • Matter • Optics • Phase • Quantum mechanics • Sound • Speed • Time • Weight • Energy • Radiation • Electromagnetic radiation • Visible spectrum • Special relativity • General relativity • Electromagnetism • Standard Model • Classical mechanics • Unsolved problems in physics Outlines (see for all subject areas) edit · watch Science – systematic enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations and predictions about the world. An older and closely related meaning still in use today is that of Aristotle, for whom scientific knowledge was a body of reliable knowledge that can be logically and rationally explained. Basis of natural science – natural science is a major branch of science, that tries to explain and predict nature's phenomena, based on empirical evidence. In natural science, hypotheses must be verified scientifically to be regarded as scientific theory. Validity, accuracy, and social mechanisms ensuring quality control, such as peer review and repeatability of findings, are amongst the criteria and methods used for this purpose. Scientific method – body of techniques for investigating phenomena, acquiring new knowledge, or correcting and integrating previous knowledge. To be termed scientific, a method of inquiry must be based on gathering empirical and measurable evidence subject to specific principles of reasoning. Metric system – decimal based system of measurement based on the metre and the kilogram, units of measure that were developed in France in 1799 and which is now used in most branches on international commerce, science and engineering. Branches of natural science – also called "the natural sciences", which are: Biology – study of life and living organisms, including their structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, distribution, and taxonomy. Biological phenomena Death – cessation of life; end of life-cycle Branches of biology Anatomy – study of the structure of living things. Human nervous system – part of the human body that coordinates a person's voluntary and involuntary actions and transmits signals between different parts of the body. Human brain – central organ of the nervous system located in the head of a human being, protected by the skull Biochemistry – study of substances found in biological organisms. Biophysics – interdisciplinary science that uses the methods of physical science to study biological systems. Studies included under the branches of biophysics span all levels of biological organization, from the molecular scale to whole organisms and ecosystems. Botany – study of plant life. Cell biology – study of cells. Their physiological properties, their structure, the organelles they contain, interactions with their environment, their life cycle, division and death. Ecology – study of interactions between organisms and their environment. Environmental studies – multidisciplinary academic field that systematically studies human interaction with the environment, bringing together principles of the physical sciences, commerce/economics and social sciences to solve today's complex contemporary environmental problems. Evolution – study of evolutionary processes that produced the diversity of life on Earth. Genetics – study of genes, heredity, and variation in living organisms. Immunology – study of immune systems in all organisms. Neuroscience – scientific study of the nervous system. Brain mapping – neuroscience techniques for making spatial maps of the (human or non-human) brain. Paleontology – study of prehistoric life, including organisms' evolution and interactions with each other and their environments (their paleoecology). Dinosaurs – diverse group of animals that were the dominant terrestrial vertebrates for over 160 million years, from the late Triassic period (about 230 million years ago) until the end of the Cretaceous (about 65 million years ago), when the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event led to the extinction of most dinosaur species at the close of the Mesozoic era. Pharmacology – broadly defined as the study of drug action and pharmacokinetics. Physiology – study of how living organisms function. Zoology – study of the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct. Life forms – living organisms Animals – multicellular, eukaryotic organisms of the kingdom Animalia (also called Metazoa). All animals are motile, meaning they can move spontaneously and independently at some point in their lives. Their body plan eventually becomes fixed as they develop, although some undergo a process of metamorphosis later on in their lives. All animals are heterotrophs: they must ingest other organisms or their products for sustenance. Ants – more than 12,000 species of social insects evolved from wasp-like ancestors, that live in organised colonies which may consist of millions of ants. Gastropods – any member of the class Gastropoda, which includes slugs and snails. Reptiles – group of tetrapods with an ectothermic ('cold-blooded') metabolism and amniotic development. Includes turtles, crocodilians, lizards and snakes, and tuatara. Birds – feathered, winged, bipedal, endothermic (warm-blooded), egg-laying, vertebrate animals. There are about 10,000 living species of birds. Fish – any member of a paraphyletic group of organisms that consist of all gill-bearing aquatic craniate animals that lack limbs with digits. Sharks – type of fish with a full cartilaginous skeleton and a highly streamlined body. The earliest known sharks date from more than 420 million years ago. Fungi – group of eukaryotic organisms that includes microorganisms such as yeasts and molds, as well as the more familiar mushrooms.  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 82 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents/Natural_and_physical_sciences responseCode 3 200 