lsqqykqkpcpqugbkdkfewkycamumdolcfcfismlk page 10011 "WP:PROPOSE" redirects here. For proposing article deletion, see Wikipedia:Proposed deletion and Wikipedia:Deletion requests. Discussion page for new proposals Policy Technical Proposals Idea lab WMF Miscellaneous Table of contents First discussion End of page New post Shortcuts WP:VPR WP:VP/PR WP:VPPRO WP:PROPS The proposals section of the village pump is used to offer specific changes for discussion. Before submitting: Check to see whether your proposal is already described at Perennial proposals. You may also wish to search the FAQ. This page is for concrete, actionable proposals. Consider developing earlier-stage proposals at Village pump (idea lab). Proposed policy changes belong at Village pump (policy). Proposed speedy deletion criteria belong at Wikipedia talk:Criteria for speedy deletion. Proposed WikiProjects or task forces may be submitted at Wikipedia:WikiProject Council/Proposals. Proposed new wikis belong at meta:Proposals for new projects. Proposed new articles belong at Wikipedia:Requested articles. Discussions or proposals which warrant the attention or involvement of the Wikimedia Foundation belong at Wikipedia:Village pump (WMF). Software changes which have consensus should be filed at Phabricator. Discussions are automatically archived after remaining inactive for nine days. « Archives, 188, 189, 190, 191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196, 197, 198, 199, 200, 201, 202, 203, 204, 205, 206, 207, 208 Centralized discussion Nominations for the Arbitration Committee elections Splitting close reviews from the Administrators' Noticeboard Requiring disclosure for admin paid advising For a listing of ongoing discussions, see the dashboard. view edit history watch archive talk purge Enable RC patrolling (aka patrolling for edits)[edit] There is no consensus to enable RC patrolling on en.wiki. There is simply not enough engagement here to find any consensus on a project-wide change that involves creating or modifying user rights and further RFCs to determine access to the permissions. Those who supported enabling patrolling argued that the system would be optional and provide an additional layer to our recent changes patrolling. Those opposed were concerned with the gamability of such a queue and that it would discourage having multiple eyes on recent edits. This is mostly moot though, because as I said above, there was not enough engagement to see any consensus, even if there was a solid majority for one position. That this RFC has been here through well over 10,000 pageviews and attracted so little response also demonstrates that the reception for this proposal is pretty tepid. ScottishFinnishRadish (talk) 22:29, 18 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] The following discussion is closed. Please do not modify it. Subsequent comments should be made on the appropriate discussion page. No further edits should be made to this discussion. This is something that has been bothering me for years now. Many other wikis have patrolling for edits in recentchanges and watchlist and it drastically improves efficiency of vandalism patrollers. Edits done by autopatrolled users automatically gets marked as patrolled, reverted and rolled back edits also automatically get marked as patrolled too (as there is no need to be reviewed again) but also when someone reviews an edit and it doesn't need to be reverted, they can mark the edit as patrolled which avoids double, triple or more reviews by others. You can enable the filter to only look at unpatrolled edits (or combine that filter with other filters, such as ores damaging ones). The software for it already exists and this feature is enabled in Wikidata, Commons, French Wikipedia, Italian Wikipedia, Dutch Wikipedia, Chinese Wikipedia, Portuguese Wikipedia and Vietnamese Wikipedia (Wikis with above >1M articles) and many more wikis. One concern was that it might start a massive backlog of edits needed to be reviewed (like pending changes) but the patrolled status gets purged after 90 days so no large backlog will be made (and it's better than status quo where there is no status stored). It was enabled in here in January 2005 but some people didn't like the "!" it adds next to unpatrolled edits. That was almost nineteen years ago when we didn't have ores or highlighting or filtering in RC/Watchlist. We can change that exclamation mark if people want it to or completely hide it (I can make the software changes necessary if there is consensus for anything different). That's not really an issue now. What do you think? Ladsgroupoverleg 17:39, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Support as proposer. Ladsgroupoverleg 17:39, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Heh. Disclosure: We had talked about this in person and I was invited to this discussion via e-mail. To my understanding, the one huge difference to Pending Changes is that all edits are immediately visible to the public. There is no queue of edits that need to be reviewed before they're displayed to readers. However, the patrol permission required to mark edits as patrolled seems to be the same one we grant at WP:PERM/NPR (cf. Special:ListGroupRights#patroller). We can either start granting that flag liberally (not going to happen) or practically forget about the idea then... ~ ToBeFree (talk) 18:25, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Ladsgroup: From your link: Patrolled edits is a feature which allows specific users to mark new pages and items in Special:RecentChanges as "patrolled" We have WP:RCP and WP:NPP which seems the same, or very similar. RudolfRed (talk) 18:28, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @RudolfRed They are the same code and software but many wikis allow the same for edits (not just new page creations). Ladsgroupoverleg 18:39, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Question: First, is this compatible with mw:Extension:PageTriage that we already have? Second, I think at the least it uses the same groups/etc - which means we'd likely end up greatly expanding those that bypass parts of new page review. — xaosflux Talk 18:30, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Xaosflux Why would it interfere with PageTriage? This is about edits not page creations. They use the same rights as the NPP which can become a problem as @ToBeFree mentioned but the fix is not that hard in the software, we can split the right and define a new group. That part is fixable. Ladsgroupoverleg 18:42, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Ladsgroup I don't recall the details, but something about how the very enwiki customized pagetriage hooks the patrol system already? — xaosflux Talk 18:44, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] It uses patrolling for new pages but it can't interfere with the edit patrolling in any way, the only complication is that the rights are the same which can be fixed easily. Ladsgroupoverleg 18:48, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] The entire MediaWiki extension would be changed to make it compatible with enwiki's new page patrolling? ~ ToBeFree (talk) 18:48, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] nah, the code for it is not too hard to change and if we want to deploy NPP to more wikis that might have edit patrolling, we have to change it anyway. Ladsgroupoverleg 18:50, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Seems like trouble - every non-user revision would be un-patrolled, which I expect would instantly flood queue in to a backlog that will never get cleared. — xaosflux Talk 18:46, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] The queue gets automatically purged after 30 days, as I said above. Ladsgroupoverleg 18:47, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] And the point of it is not to clear any queues either. You will just have a a new filter to avoid re-reviewing edits and wasting your time. Ladsgroupoverleg 18:55, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Oppose. If the right is new-page patroller, a critical feed which is nearly always backlogged, we don't want to divide the attention of the small group of people who are trusted to work in this area into something significantly less pressing. Espresso Addict (talk) 21:53, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Actually the more I think about this, the less I like it. Frank vandalism is usually easy to spot and revert, so wastes little time. The really problematic edits are PoV pushing of one form or another, and it would be trivial for a PoV pusher/paid editor to get the permission and then reduce scrutiny on problematic edits. Espresso Addict (talk) 00:19, 11 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Comment I review most edits on my watchlist by hovering over (diff) (or "(3 changes)", etc.) with Popups. This is quick and easy. I'd be much less productive, and less likely to bother, if I had to click (diff) against every edit, wait for the page to load, click "mark as patrolled" and find my place in the watchlist again. Certes (talk) 22:11, 10 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] The support for marking edits patrolled can easily be added to popups. Ladsgroupoverleg 11:05, 11 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Or... you could just not mark things as patrolled, @Certes. I don't think that everyone is understanding this proposal. Think of the question this way: We could have a system that allows admins and other editors we trust to optionally signal to other editors – the ones who are voluntarily choosing to use this feature – to signal to the other editors in the opted-in group that one editor personally thinks a given edit no longer needs extra eyes on it (e.g., because it was reverted already, or because the patroller knows that it's good). If you choose to use this optional system, then you can filter Special:RecentChanges to show you only those edits that other editors either haven't checked or are uncertain about. You would not need to see (and re-check) edits that other editors have already marked as acceptable. You would know which ones have no been checked, instead of assuming that the entire list of recent changes needs your personal attention. Nobody will be required to use this system. In fact, it would probably be good to have a mix of ed contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 68 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Village_pump_(proposals) responseCode 3 200 