lssahenaqmwcqihcdkqafgqmeksmtaakmolgwoog length 6 104403 page 8574 Politics of Spain Constitution Constitution Constitutional Court President Cándido Conde-Pumpido Vice President Inmaculada Montalbán Huertas Constitutional history Spanish transition to democracy Human rights Taxation Law Abortion Nationality Capital punishment Life imprisonment The Crown Royal Household The Monarch (list) Felipe VI Heir presumptive (list) Leonor, Princess of Asturias Royal family Succession to the Spanish throne Executive Government of the Nation Prime Minister (list) Pedro Sánchez Deputy Prime Minister (list) Nadia Calviño (first) Yolanda Díaz (second) Teresa Ribera (third) Council of Ministers Sánchez III Government Ministries Government Delegations Government Delegated Committees Interministerial Committees Spanish prime-ministerial transition List of agencies in Spain Council of State Economic and Social Council Legislature Cortes Generales (14th Cortes Generales) Senate (14th Senate) Speaker (list) Ander Gil Congress of Deputies (14th Congress) Speaker (list) Meritxell Batet Parliamentary groups Permanent Deputation Bureaus of the Cortes Generales Board of Spokespersons People's Defender (ombudsman) Solemn Opening of the Parliament of Spain Judiciary General Council of the Judiciary Supreme Court President (list) Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Vice President Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Audiencia Nacional High courts of justice Court of Auditors Prosecution Ministry Euro European Central Bank Bank of Spain Governor of the Bank of Spain Pablo Hernández de Cos Deputy Governor of the Bank of Spain Margarita Delgado Tejero Royal Mint of Spain Administrative subdivisions Autonomous communities Legislatures Governments Presidents Autonomous cities Provinces Comarcas Municipalities Plazas de soberanía Elections Political parties Recent elections General: 2019 (Apr) 2019 (Nov) 2023 Regional: 2015 2019 2023 European: 2014 2019 2024 Referendums: 1978 1986 2005 Foreign relations Foreign relations Diplomatic missions of Spain in Spain Politics of the European Union Related topics Political parties: PP PSOE Podemos C's Spanish transition to democracy Francoist Spain Anarchism in Spain Liberalism and radicalism in Spain Spanish Civil War Nationalisms and regionalisms of Spain: Basque Catalan Galician Catalan independence movement (Spanish constitutional crisis of 2017–18) Disputed status of Gibraltar Republicanism in Spain (Second Spanish Republic) Spain portal Other countries v t e The Board of Spokespersons is a parliamentary body of the Cortes Generales mainly entrusted with the task of ordering the agenda of the Parliament. As a bicameral legislature, the Cortes Generales are formed by two houses, the Senate and the Congress of Deputies. The Board meets every week. Each House possesses its own Board of Spokespersons made up by the Speaker of the House and the Spokespersons of every parliamentary group. In addition, the minority groups without an own parliamentary group are represented by the Spokesperson of the Mixed Group. Members[edit] See also: Parliamentary group (Spain) Chairperson[edit] See also: President of the Senate of Spain See also: President of the Congress of Deputies The Chairperson of the Board of Spokespersons is the Speaker of the respective House. Spokesperson[edit] The Spokesperson of a Parliamentary Group is de facto leader of the Group (although normally they act by orders of the leader of the political party that acts as president of the Parliamentary Group) and a full member of the Board. Mixed Group[edit] The Mixed Group is a permanent parliamentary group made up by the members of political parties without enough MPs to form their own Parliamentary Group. From the members of the group a Spokesperson is chosen which represent them. Other attendants[edit] To the meetings of the Board also attends a representative of the executive branch (normally the Secretary of State for Relations with the Cortes or the Director-General for Relations with the Cortes). The Clerks of the Cortes Generales also attend to give legal advice. Senate[edit] Main article: Senate of Spain The Board of Spokespersons of the Senate is made up by the Speaker of the Senate and the Spokespersons of the Parliamentary Groups. Normally, the Parliamentary Groups are sub-divided in Territorial Groups, and two representatives for each territorial group is allowed to attend (especially when what is going to be discussed affects a specific region).[1] The Board of Spokespersons needs to meet to approve (Part III § 44): The dates on which the sessions of the House begin and end. The agenda of the sessions of the Senate. The criteria that contribute to order and facilitate the debates and tasks of the Senate. The interpretive or supplementary rules that may be dictated by the Speaker. Senate' Board[edit] sinmarco Board of Spokespersons of the Senate[2] Office Name Parliamentary Group Chairperson (Speaker) Ander Gil Socialist Group Spokesperson Eva Granados Socialist Group Javier Maroto Popular Group Mirella Cortès Gès Republican Left-EH Bildu Group Miguel Sánchez López Citizens Group Jokin Bildarratz Basque Group Josep Lluís Cleries Nationalist Group Carles Mulet García Confederal Left Group Alberto Prudencio Catalán Mixed Group Deputy Spokespersons[edit] Socialist Group Julián Antonio Rodríguez Esquerdo. Francisco Javier Aragón Ariza. María Mercedes Berenguer Llorens. Ramón Morales Quesada. Riansares Serrano Morales. María José Villalba Chavarría. Popular Group Salomé Pradas Ten. José Manuel Barreiro Fernández Republican Left-EH Bildu Group Bernat Picornell Grenzner. Gorka Elejabarrieta Díaz. Citizens Group Francisco José Carillo Guerrero. Ruth Goñi Sarries. Basque Group María Isabel Vaquero Montero. Nerea Ahedo Ceza. Nationalist Group María del Mar del Pino Julios Reyes. Podemos Group Sara Vilà Galán. Mixed Group Alberto Prudencio Catalán Higueras. Francisco José Alcaraz. Congress of Deputies[edit] Main article: Congress of Deputies The Board of Spokespersons of the Congress of Deputies is made up by the Speaker of the Congress of Deputies and the Spokespersons of the Parliamentary Groups. The Spokesperson or the Deputy Spokesperson (if the Spokesperson can't attend) may be assisted by a member of its Parliamentary Group, although with no vote (Part III§ 39). To the meetings of the Board must to attend at least one of the Vice Presidents (or Deputy Speakers) of the Congress, one Secretary of the Congress and the Secretary-General of the Congress of Deputies (an administrative office held by the Senior Clerk).[3] The Board of Spokespersons is responsible for discussing: The agenda of the sessions of the Senate (Part III§ 67). All the matters that the Speaker considers need to be discussed. Congress' Board[edit] Board of Spokespersons of the Congress of Deputies[4] Office Name Party Chairperson (Speaker) Meritxell Batet Socialist Party Group Spokesperson Patxi López Socialist Party Group Cuca Gamarra People's Party Group Inés Arrimadas Ciudadanos Group Pablo Echenique Robba Unidas Podemos Group Iván Espinosa de los Monteros Vox Group Gabriel Rufián Republican Group Aitor Esteban Basque Group Mertxe Aizpurua EH Bildu Group Laura Borràs Plural Group Mireia Vehí Mixed Group Deputy Spokespersons[edit] Socialist Group Rafael Simancas, First Deputy Spokesperson. Ana Belén Fernández Casero, Second Deputy Spokesperson. Susana Ros Martínez, Third Deputy Spokesperson. Felipe Jesús Sicilia Alférez, Fourth Deputy Spokesperson. José Zaragoza Alonso, Fifth Deputy Spokesperson. Guillermo Antonio Meijón Couselo, Sixth Deputy Spokesperson. Popular Group Isabel María Borrego Cortés. José Ignacio Echániz. Belén Hoyo Juliá. Guillermo Mariscal Anaya. Jaime Eduardo de Olano. Citizens Group Fernando de Páramo. Joan Mesquida. Melisa Rodríguez. Antonio Roldán. Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas. Podemos Group Alberto Garzón. Jaume Asens. Yolanda Díaz Pérez. Ione Belarra. Txema Guijarro. Vox Group Javier Ortega Smith. Esquerra Republicana Group Carolina Telechea Basque Group Mikel Legarda. Mixed Group Joan Baldoví References[edit] ^ "Standing Orders of the Senate (in Spanish)". www.boe.es. Retrieved 2019-05-22. ^ Senate of Spain. "Current Board of Spokespersons of the Senate". www.senado.es (in Spanish). Retrieved 2019-06-12. ^ "Standing Orders of the Congress (in Spanish)". www.boe.es. Retrieved 2019-05-22. ^ "Current Board of Spokespersons of the Congress of Deputies". External links[edit] Senate Standing Orders in English. Congress of Deputies Standing Orders in English. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Board_of_Spokespersons responseCode 3 200 