mamceqhemqjgnktevcvejouisiiipqncuipqyqvm length 6 204724 page 10006 "WP:POL" redirects here. For the WikiProject about politics, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Politics. For the WikiProject about the Republic of Poland, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Poland. Wikimedia procedural policy This page documents a procedural policy of Wikipedia. It documents various processes by which the English Wikipedia operates. Shortcuts WP:PG WP:P&G WP:RULES WP:POLICY WP:GUIDELINE This page in a nutshell: Wikipedia's policies and guidelines are pages that serve to document the good practices accepted in the Wikipedia community. This policy describes how our policies and guidelines should normally be developed and maintained. Policies and guidelines (list) Principles Five pillars Ignore all rules Content policies Article titles Biographies of living persons Image use Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability What Wikipedia is not (Not a dictionary) Conduct policies Civility Clean start Consensus Dispute resolution Edit warring Editing policy Harassment No legal threats No personal attacks Ownership of content Username policy Vandalism Other policy categories Deletion Enforcement Legal Procedural Directories List of policies List of guidelines Manual of Style contents v t e Wikipedia's policies and guidelines are developed by the community to describe best practices, clarify principles, resolve conflicts, and otherwise further our goal of creating a free, reliable encyclopedia. There is no need to read any policy or guideline pages to start editing. The five pillars are a popular summary of the most pertinent principles. Although Wikipedia generally does not employ hard-and-fast rules, Wikipedia's policy and guideline pages describe its principles and agreed-upon best practices. Policies are standards all users should normally follow, and guidelines are generally meant to be best practices for following those standards in specific contexts. Policies and guidelines should always be applied using reason and common sense. This policy page specifies the community standards related to the organization, life cycle, maintenance of, and adherence to policies, guidelines, and related pages of the English Wikipedia. It does not cover other editions of Wikipedia. (See Wikipedia:List of policies and Wikipedia:List of guidelines for a comprehensive listing of individual English Wikipedia policies and guidelines.) Derivation Further information: Wikipedia:Administration § Human and legal administration Wikipedia is operated by the not-for-profit Wikimedia Foundation, which reserves certain legal rights—see the Wikimedia Foundation's Policies page for a list of its policies. See also Role of Jimmy Wales. Nevertheless, normally Wikipedia is a self-governing project run by its community. Its policies and guidelines are intended to reflect the consensus of the community. Role Further information: Wikipedia:The difference between policies, guidelines and essays Shortcuts WP:POLICIES WP:GUIDES Policies have wide acceptance among editors and describe standards all users should normally follow. All policy pages are in Wikipedia:List of policies and guidelines and Category:Wikipedia policies. For summaries of key policies, see also List of policies. Guidelines are sets of best practices supported by consensus. Editors should attempt to follow guidelines, though they are best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply. Guideline pages can be found in Wikipedia:List of policies and guidelines and Category:Wikipedia guidelines. For summaries of key guidelines, see also List of guidelines. Essays are the opinion or advice of an editor or group of editors for which widespread consensus has not been established. They do not speak for the entire community and may be created and written without approval. Essays the author does not want others to edit, or that contradict widespread consensus, belong in the user namespace. (For more information, see Wikipedia:Essays.) Other administration pages in the project namespace include: Process pages, which facilitate the application of the policies and guidelines (e.g. Wikipedia:Articles for deletion), WikiProject pages, including essays they have written to give advice to other editors about their areas of interest, How-to or help pages (also found in the Help namespace), which provide mainly technical information, Information pages, which generally provide factual information, Supplements to guidelines and policies, which explain advice in greater detail, Community discussion pages and noticeboards for communication between editors, and Historical pages, which are outdated.[1] These other pages are not policies or guidelines, although they may contain valuable advice or information. Adherence Shortcut WP:ADHERENCE Use common sense in interpreting and applying policies and guidelines; rules have occasional exceptions. However, those who violate the spirit of a rule may be reprimanded or sanctioned even if they do not technically break the rule. Whether a policy or guideline is an accurate description of best practice is determined through consensus. On discussion pages and in edit summaries, shortcuts are often used to refer to policies and guidelines. (For example, WP:NOR (no original research), WP:NPOV (neutral point of view) and WP:BLP (biographies of living persons)). Similar shortcuts are also used for other types of project pages like essays and how-to guides. Thus a shortcut does not necessarily imply the linked page has policy or guideline status or has been widely accepted by the community. Additionally, the shortcut is not the policy; the plain-English definition of the page's title or shortcut may be importantly different from the linked page. Enforcement Further information: Wikipedia:Enforcement policies, Wikipedia:Active sanctions, and Wikipedia:Arbitration enforcement Shortcuts WP:ENFORCEMENT WP:ENFORCE Enforcement on Wikipedia is similar to other social interactions. If an editor violates the community standards described in policies and guidelines, other editors can persuade the person to adhere to acceptable norms of conduct, over time resorting to more forceful means, such as administrator and steward actions. In the case of gross violations of community norms, they are likely to resort to more forceful means fairly rapidly. Going against the principles set out on these pages, particularly policy pages, is unlikely to prove acceptable, although it may be possible to convince fellow editors an exception ought to be made. This means individual editors (including you) enforce and apply policies and guidelines. In cases where it is clear a user is acting against policy (or against a guideline in a way that conflicts with policy), especially if they are doing so intentionally and persistently, that user may be temporarily or indefinitely blocked from editing by an administrator. In cases where the general dispute resolution procedure has been ineffective, the Arbitration Committee has the power to deal with highly disruptive or sensitive situations. Content See also: Wikipedia:Avoid instruction creep Policy and guideline pages should: Be clear. Avoid esoteric or quasi-legal terms or dumbed-down language. Be plain, direct, unambiguous, and specific. Avoid platitudes and generalities. Even in guidelines, help pages, and other non-policy pages, do not be afraid to tell editors directly they must or should do something. Be as concise as possible—but no more concise. Verbosity is not a reliable defense against misinterpretation. Omit needless words. Direct, concise writing may be clearer than rambling examples. Footnotes and links to other pages may be used for further clarification. Emphasize the spirit of the rule. Expect editors to use common sense. If the spirit of the rule is clear, say no more. Maintain scope and avoid redundancy. Clearly identify the purpose and scope early in the page, as many readers will just look at the beginning. Content should be within the scope of its policy. When the scope of one advice page overlaps with the scope of another, minimize redundancy. When one policy refers to another policy, it should do so briefly, clearly and explicitly. Avoid overlinking. Policies and guidelines may contain links to any type of page, including essays and articles. However, such links should only appear when clarification or context is needed. Links to other advice pages may inadvertently or intentionally defer authority to them. Make it clear when such links defer, and when they do not. Not contradict each other. The community's view cannot simultaneously be "A" and "not A". When apparent discrepancies arise between pages, editors at all the affected pages should discuss how they can most accurately represent the community's current position and correct all the pages to reflect the community's view. This discussion should be on one talk page, with invitations to that page at the talk pages of the various affected pages; otherwise, the corrections may still contradict each other. Not part of the encyclopedia Shortcut WP:NOTPART Further information: Wikipedia:Project namespace § Content Wikipedia has many policies and guidelines about encyclopedic content. These standards require verifiability, neutrality, respect for living people, and more. The policies, guidelines, and process pages themselves are not part of the encyclopedia proper. Consequently, they do not generally need to conform to the same content standards or style conventions as articles. It is therefore not necessary to provide reliable sources to verify Wikipedia's administrative pages, or to phrase Wikipedia procedures or principles in a neutral manner, or to cite an outside authority in determining Wikipedia's editorial practices. Instead, the content of these pages is controlled by community-wide consensus, and the style should emphasize clarity, directness, and usefulness to other editors.[2] These pages do, however, need to comply with Wikipedia's legal and behavioral  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 67 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Policies_and_guidelines responseCode 3 200 