mcliwiekjsuoaevmhqaiecpguaccgegspggezidg length 6 120389 page 7238 Sail boat with a single mast and a fore-and-aft rig This article is about the type of sailing boat. For the warship, see Sloop-of-war. Gaff rigged sloop, 1899 A sloop is a sailboat with a single mast[1] typically having only one headsail in front of the mast and one mainsail aft of (behind) the mast.[note 1] Such an arrangement is called a fore-and-aft rig, and can be rigged as a Bermuda rig with triangular sails fore and aft, or as a gaff-rig with triangular foresail(s) and a gaff rigged mainsail. In naval terminology, "sloop-of-war" refers to the purpose of the craft, rather than to the specific size or sail-plan, and thus a sloop should not be confused with a sloop-of-war. The term is also used loosely with other sail plans, as with the Friendship Sloop, [2]: 48-53  which is a cutter.[3] Origins[edit] The name originates from the Dutch sloep, which is related to the Old English slūpan, to glide.[4] A sloop is usually regarded as a single-masted rig with a single headsail and a fore-and-aft mainsail. In this form, the sloop is the commonest of all sailing rigs – with the Bermuda sloop being the default rig for leisure craft, being used on types that range from simple cruising dinghies to large racing yachts with high-tech sail fabrics and large powerful winches.[2]: 48–53 If the vessel has two or more headsails, the term cutter may be used,[5] especially if the mast is stepped further aft. Variations[edit] 19th Century Bermudian sloops racing Before the Bermuda rig became popular outside of Bermuda in the early Twentieth Century, a (non-Bermudian) sloop might carry one or more square-rigged topsails which will be hung from a topsail yard and be supported from below by a crossjack.[6] A sloop's headsail may be masthead-rigged or fractional-rigged. On a masthead-rigged sloop, the forestay (on which the headsail is carried) attaches at the top of the mast. On a fractional-rigged sloop, the forestay attaches to the mast at a point below the top. A sloop may use a bowsprit, a spar that projects forward from the bow. Gallery[edit] Bermuda-rigged sloop. The jib is a headsail. See cutter rig for other examples of headsails. Gunter-rigged sloop Gaff-rigged sloop with a headsail and a gaff topsail Spritsail sloop Sloop sail with multiple foresails and topsail See also[edit] Mast aft rig, a single mast rig with a mast further back than a sloop or cutter Chialoup, an historical type of sloop produced in the East Indies Bermuda sloop, originally used for a type of sea-going, sloop-rigged vessel. Today used for any Bermuda-rigged sloop Bermuda Fitted Dinghy: a scaled-down sloop used for racing in Bermuda Notes[edit] ^ A sloop may also carry several square-rigged sails including a crossjack, topsail, save-all topsail, and top gallant sail, as well as a gaff-rigged topsail on the main mast and a jib and flying jib ahead of the headsail. References[edit] ^ "SLOOP | meaning in the Cambridge English Dictionary". dictionary.cambridge.org. Retrieved 2019-05-12. ^ a b Bennett, Jenny (2005). Sailing Rigs, an Illustrated Guide. London: Chatham Publishing. ISBN 1-86176-243-7. ^ Jones, Gregory O. (2001-12-06). The American Sailboat. MBI Publishing Company. ISBN 978-0-7603-1002-1. ^ "Sloop". dictionary.com. Retrieved 12 May 2019. ^ "Cutter | sailing craft". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 2019-05-12. ^ Samuel Fallows (1885). Progressive Dictionary of the English Language. Progressive. p. 148. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Sloops. v t e Types of sailing vessels and rigs Overviews Age of Sail Maritime history Age of Discovery Navigation Sailing rigs Bermuda rig Crab claw Fore-and-aft rig Gaff rig Gunter rig Junk rig Lateen rig Ljungström rig Lug rig Mast aft rig Pinisi rig Square rig Tanja rig By sailing rigs Barque Barquentine Brig Brigantine Catboat Cutter Full-rigged ship Jackass-barque Ketch Mistico Schooner Sloop Snow Yawl Multihull vessels ʻalia Amatasi Baurua Bigiw Camakau Catamaran Drua Guilalo Jukung Kaep Kalia Karakoa Kora kora Lakatoi Lanong Outrigger canoe Pahi Paraw Pentamaran Proa Quadrimaran Takia Tepukei Tipairua Tongiaki Trimaran Ungalawa Va'a-tele Vaka katea Vinta Wa Naval and merchant sailing ships and other vessels (by origin date) Ancient Balangay Boita Borobudur ship Dhow Fire ship Galley Penteconter Bireme Trireme Quadriremes Tessarakonteres Dromon Junk K'un-lun po Lepa Mtepe Uru Post-classical Balinger Benawa Birlinn Bomb vessel Cog Hulk Jong Knarr Koch Kondura Longship Malangbang Shitik Tongkang Zabra 15th c. Carrack Chinese treasure ship Caravel Ghurab Lancaran Hoy Trabaccolo 16th c. Crommesteven Galiot Galleon Galleass Ghali Flyboat Fluyt Full-rigged pinnace Lorcha Man-of-war Patache Speronara Square-rigged caravel (round or de armada) Xebec 17th c. Bermuda sloop Corvette East Indiaman Frigate Galeas Koff Pink Polacca Ship of the line 18th c. Bilander Chialoup Clipper (Baltimore Clipper) Gallivat Garay Grab Gundalow Lanong Padewakang Post ship 74-gun Ship of the line Sloop-of-war Toop Trincadour 19th c. Blackwall frigate Down Easter Golekan Iron-hulled sailing ship Warship Janggolan Lambo Leti leti Palari Tamar West Country Windjammer 20th c. Montagu whaler Fishing vessels Bagan Bago Barca-longa Falkuša Felucca Fifie Gableboat Herring buss Jangada Jukung Lugger Masula Mayang Patorani Nordland Sixareen Sgoth Smack Tartane Well smack Yoal Recreational vessels Dinghy Ljungström sailboat Mast aft rig Pocket cruiser Sailing hydrofoil Sailing yacht Sportsboat Trailer sailer Wharrams Windsurfer Yacht Special terms Inflatable Lashed lug Razee Sewn Tall ship Treenailed ULDB Other types Floating restaurant Bristol Channel Pilot Cutter Fusta Mersey flat Norfolk punt Norfolk wherry Pausik Pinnace (ship's boat) Pram Scow Thames sailing barge Wherry Related Nautical operations v t e Sails, spars and rigging including limited use*, outdated† Rigs (jury rigging) Textile Bermuda B&R Cat Fore-and-aft Gaff Gunter Junk* Ljungström Mast-aft Pinisi Square Other Rotorsail* Turbosail* Wingsail Sails (sailing rigs) Three-sided Asymmetrical spinnaker Crab claw* Gennaker Genoa Jib Lateen Mainsail (Bermuda rig) Raffee Ringtail* Screecher* Spinnaker Staysail Trysail* Four-sided Course Fisherman† Foresail Junk sail* Lug sail Mainsail (square rig) Moonraker* Ringtail* Royal Skysail* Spanker Spritsail (square-rigged)† Spritsail* (Optimist) Studding* Tanja sail Topgallant Topsail Watersail* Components Batten Bolt rope Cringle Emblems Draft Jackline Reefing points Roach Sailcloth Spreader patch Tell-tale Spars On bow Bowsprit sprit topmast Dolphin striker Jackstaff Jibboom Pelican striker On mast Boom Boomkin Gaff Truck Crosstrees Spinnaker pole Spreader Sprit Yard Rigging Standing Bobstay Lazy jack Running backstay Shroud ratlines Stay mouse† Stays backstay forestay Running Boomkicker* Boom vang Braces Buntlines Cunningham Clewlines Downhaul Guy Halyard peak throat Outhaul Preventer Sheet Tack Topping lift Components Baggywrinkle Belaying pin* Block Cleat bitts Clevis pin Deadeye Earing Fairlead Footrope Gasket Parrel beads Ring bolt Roller furling Shackle Swivel gooseneck Trapeze Traveller Turnbuckle Winch Authority control databases National Czech Republic Artists KulturNav contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 39 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Sloop responseCode 3 200 