mgrququiscjgjoiouaqeaizkjitcpewexacguiwk page 9603 Species of turtle Zhou's box turtle Conservation status Critically Endangered (IUCN 2.3) CITES Appendix II (CITES)[1] Scientific classification Domain: Eukaryota Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genus: Cuora Species: C. zhoui Binomial name Cuora zhoui Zhao, 1990 Synonyms[2] Cuora zhoui Zhao in Zhao, T. Zhou & Ye, 1990 Cuora pallidicephala McCord & Iverson, 1991 Pyxiclemmys zhoui — Vetter in Vetter & van Dijk, 2006 Zhou's box turtle (Cuora zhoui) is a species of turtle in the family Geoemydidae (formerly Bataguridae). The species is apparently endemic to China. Etymology[edit] The specific name, zhoui, is in honor of Chinese herpetologist Zhou Jiufa.[3] Geographic range[edit] C. zhoui is only known from Chinese food market specimens, and from a relatively small number of individuals that are part of captive breeding programs in China, Germany (notably the Münster Zoo), and the United States.[4] In December 2018, the known captive population numbered about 140 individuals, including 80 hatched at the Münster Zoo.[5] It may be found in the forests of southeastern Yunnan or western Guangxi, although it has never been recorded in the wild.[4] Conservation Status[edit] The over-collection of turtles in Asia for food, medicinal purposes, and the pet trade industry are the primary causes of the decimation of this turtle's population. As of 2012, this species is considered to be critically endangered and in the middle of a conservation crisis. Female Plastron References[edit] ^ "Appendices | CITES". cites.org. Retrieved 2022-01-14. ^ Fritz, Uwe; Havaš, Peter (2007). "Checklist of Chelonians of the World" (PDF). Vertebrate Zoology. 57 (2): 219–220. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-05-01. Retrieved 29 May 2012. ^ Beolens, Bo; Watkins, Michael; Grayson, Michael (2011). The Eponym Dictionary of Reptiles. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. xiii + 296 pp. ISBN 978-1-4214-0135-5. (Cuora zhoui, p. 293). ^ a b "Searching for the elusive Zhou's box turtle | IUCN". Archived from the original on 2017-09-11. Retrieved 2017-09-11. ^ Zooborns (26 December 2018). Allwetterzoo Provides Haven for Endangered Turtles Further reading[edit] Zhao, "Er-mi"; Zhou, Ting; Ye, Ping (1990). "A new Chinese box turtle (Testudinata: Emydidae) — Cuora zhoui ". pp. 213–216. In: Zhao, "Ermi" (editor) (1990). From Water Onto Land. Beijing: Chinese Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles. ("Cuora zhoui Zhao sp. nov.", pp. 213, 216). (in Chinese and English). External links[edit] Asian Turtle Trade Working Group (2016) [errata version of 2000 assessment]. "Cuora zhoui". IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 2000: e.T5963A97360787. doi:10.2305/IUCN.UK.2000.RLTS.T5963A11972677.en. Retrieved 9 January 2018. Listed as Critically Endangered (CR A1d+2d) Species Cuora zhoui at The Reptile Database Lee DS, Levine LM (2004). First captive breeding of Zhou's Box Turtle, Cuora zhoui, in North America. [1] Spinks, P. Q., Thomson, R. C., Zhang, Y., Che, J., Wu, Y., & Shaffer, H. B. (2012). Species boundaries and phylogenetic relationships in the critically endangered Asian box turtle genus Cuora. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution, 63(3), 656–667. [2] Struijk RPJH, Woldring LA. Cuora Studbooks, an overview. [3] CITES Proposal 11.36 – status and biological information on Cuora species. [4] v t e Family Geoemydidae Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genera Species of the family Geoemydidae †Banhxeochelys †Banhxeochelys trani Batagur Burmese roofed turtle Northern river terrapin Painted terrapin Red-crowned roofed turtle Southern river terrapin Three-striped roofed turtle Cuora Amboina box turtle Bourret's box turtle Indochinese box turtle McCord's box turtle Keeled box turtle Pan's box turtle Southern Vietnamese box turtle Golden coin turtle Vietnamese three-striped box turtle Yellow-headed box turtle Chinese box turtle Yunnan box turtle Zhou's box turtle Cyclemys Asian leaf turtle Assam leaf turtle Eastern black-bridged leaf turtle Enigmatic leaf turtle Myanmar brown leaf turtle Oldham's leaf turtle Western black-bridged leaf turtle †Echmatemys †Echmatemys septaria †Echmatemys stevensoniana †Echmatemys wyomingensis Geoclemys Black pond turtle Geoemyda Black-breasted leaf turtle Ryukyu black-breasted leaf turtle Hardella Brahminy river turtle Heosemys Arakan forest turtle Giant Asian pond turtle Spiny turtle Yellow-headed temple turtle Leucocephalon Sulawesi forest turtle Malayemys Malayan snail-eating turtle Mekong snail-eating turtle Khorat snail-eating turtle Mauremys Balkan pond turtle Caspian turtle Chinese pond turtle Chinese stripe-necked turtle Japanese pond turtle Red-necked pond turtle Spanish pond turtle Vietnamese pond turtle Yellow pond turtle Melanochelys Indian black turtle Tricarinate hill turtle Morenia Burmese eyed turtle Indian eyed turtle Notochelys Malayan flat-shelled turtle Orlitia Malaysian giant turtle Pangshura Assam roofed turtle Brown roofed turtle Indian roofed turtle Indian tent turtle †Pangshura tatrotia Rhinoclemmys Black wood turtle Brown wood turtle Colombian wood turtle Furrowed wood turtle Large-nosed wood turtle Maracaibo wood turtle Mexican spotted wood turtle Painted wood turtle Spot-legged wood turtle †Rhinoclemmys panamaensis Sacalia Beale's eyed turtle Four-eyed turtle Siebenrockiella Black marsh turtle Philippine forest turtle Vijayachelys Cane turtle Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on turtles of the world 2017 update: Annotated checklist and atlas of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution, and conservation status. †=Extinct. v t e Testudines Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder Superfamily Family Genus Cryptodira Chelonioidea (Sea turtles) Cheloniidae †Allopleuron Caretta †Carolinochelys Chelonia †Eochelone Eretmochelys †Gigantatypus †Glarichelys †Itilochelys Lepidochelys †Mexichelys †Miocaretta Natator †Pacifichelys †Syllomus †Tasbacka Dermochelyidae †Arabemys †Bouliachelys †Corsochelys †Cosmochelys Dermochelys †Eosphargis †Mesodermochelys †Psephophorus †Euclastes †Peritresius †Procolpochelys †Protosphargis †Puppigerus Kinosternoidea Dermatemydidae Dermatemys Kinosternidae Claudius †Hoplochelys Kinosternon Staurotypus Sternotherus Testudinoidea Emydidae Chrysemys Clemmys Deirochelys Emys Actinemys Emydoidea Glyptemys Graptemys Malaclemys Pseudemys Terrapene Trachemys Geoemydidae Batagur †Banhxeochelys Cuora Cyclemys Geoclemys Geoemyda Hardella Heosemys Leucocephalon Malayemys Mauremys Melanochelys Morenia Notochelys Orlitia Pangshura Rhinoclemmys Sacalia Siebenrockiella Vijayachelys Platysternidae Platysternon Testudinidae Aldabrachelys Astrochelys Centrochelys Chelonoidis Chersina Cylindraspis Geochelone Gopherus †Hadrianus †Hesperotestudo Homopus Indotestudo Kinixys Malacochersus Manouria †Megalochelys Psammobates Pyxis †Solitudo Stigmochelys †Stylemys Testudo Trionychia Carettochelyidae †Allaeochelys †Anosteira Carettochelys Trionychidae Amyda Apalone †Axestemys Chitra Cyclanorbis Cycloderma †Drazinderetes Dogania †Gilmoremys †Hutchemys †Khunnuchelys Lissemys Nilssonia Palea †Palaeoamyda Pelochelys Pelodiscus Rafetus Trionyx †Basilochelys †Sinaspideretes Chelydridae †Acherontemys Chelydra †Chelydrops †Chelydropsis †Emarginachelys †Macrocephalochelys Macrochelys †Planiplastron †Protochelydra †Nanhsiungchelyidae †Anomalochelys †Basilemys †Jiangxichelys †Protostegidae †Alienochelys †Archelon †Atlantochelys †Calcarichelys †Cratochelone †Desmatochelys †Iserosaurus †Notochelone †Ocepechelon †Pneumatoarthrus †Protostega †Rhinochelys †Santanachelys †Terlinguachelys †Adocus †Argillochelys †Bashuchelys †Ctenochelys †Prionochelys †Toxochelys Pleurodira †Araripemydidae †Araripemys †Bothremydidae †Araiochelys †Arenila †Azabbaremys †Bothremys †Cearachelys †Chedighaii †Chupacabrachelys †Eotaphrosphys †Foxemys †Galianemys †Ilatardia †Inaechelys †Itapecuruemys †Jainemys †Kinkonychelys †Kurmademys †Labrostochelys †Nigeremys †Phosphatochelys †Polysternon †Puentemys †Rosasia †Rhothonemys †Sankuchemys †Taphrosphys †Ummulisani †Zolhafah Chelidae Acanthochelys Chelodina Chelus Elseya Elusor Emydura Hydromedusa †Lomalatachelys Mesoclemmys Myuchelys Phrynops Platemys †Prochelidella Pseudemydura Rheodytes Rhinemys †Yaminuechelys Pelomedusidae Pelomedusa Pelusios Podocnemididae †Albertwoodemys †Bauruemys †Brontochelys †Caninemys †Carbonemys †Cerrejonemys †Cordichelys Erymnochelys †Lapparentemys †Latentemys Peltocephalus Podocnemis †Stupendemys †Sahonachelyidae †Sahonachelys †Sokatra †Caribemys †Caririemys †Tacuarembemys Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on Turtles of the World 2017 Update: Annotated Checklist and Atlas of Taxonomy, Synonymy, Distribution, and Conservation Status. † = extinct. See also List of Testudines families Taxon identifiers Wikidata: Q305805 Wikispecies: Cuora zhoui ADW: Cuora_zhoui ARKive: cuora-zhoui BOLD: 28763 CoL: 6BRP5 EoL: 795215 Fossilworks: 373880 GBIF: 2443497 iNaturalist: 39900 IRMNG: 11004028 ITIS: 551915 IUCN: 5963 NCBI: 204956 RD: zhoui Species+: 5930 This article about a turtle is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Zhou%27s_box_turtle responseCode 3 200 