mguqmspgcacmpqhktgxofgwkpquoumpgusoeoczk length 6 215747 page 10004 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... Please add the line ==={{subst:CURRENTDAY}} {{subst:CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{subst:CURRENTYEAR}}=== for each new day and the time the set was removed from the DYK template at the top for the newly posted set of archived hooks. This will ensure all times are based on UTC time and accurate. This page should be archived once a month. Thanks. 28 February 2018 00:00, 28 February 2018 (UTC) Fannie Lou Hamer ... that African-American civil rights leader Fannie Lou Hamer (pictured) was brutally beaten on the orders of police in Mississippi for standing up against racial segregation? ... that the French Constitutional Council triggered a by-election in a constituency where the winning candidate avoided a second round by 16 votes? ... that harpsichordist Pieter-Jan Belder recorded the complete Fitzwilliam Virginal Book, and Telemann's complete Tafelmusik with his ensemble Musica Amphion? ... that the anime series C was inspired by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers? ... that Henry V. Plummer was a chaplain with the US Army Buffalo Soldiers, while his son H. Vinton Plummer was a leader in Marcus Garvey's secret service and militia? ... that Warming's lantern fish spends the day at depths and ascends at night to feed on mats of diatoms near the sea surface? ... that Kenneth Cairns won four gold medals and one silver in his first Paralympic Games? ... that the jazz club Bop City was the site of the only meeting between Louis Armstrong and Charlie Parker? 27 February 2018 00:00, 27 February 2018 (UTC) Alexandra Palace ... that John Johnson and Alfred Meeson designed the Alexandra Palace (pictured) in north London? ... that findings at Laili Cave show that Timor was colonised at least 44,600 years ago, making it the oldest known habitation of modern humans in Wallacea? ... that after J. Charles Jones led an anti-segregation sit-in with hundreds of activists at a Woolworth counter in Charlotte, North Carolina, the store closed its counter to prevent further integration? ... that Bach's motet Komm, Jesu, komm, BWV 229 (Come, Jesus, come) sets lyrics by Paul Thymich, scored for a double choir? ... that abolitionist Richard Foster was an officer of the 1st Missouri Regiment of Colored Infantry in the civil war and, with his regiment, established the Lincoln Institute as a school for African Americans? ... that the youngest bell of St. Lubentius, Dietkirchen, a Romanesque church on a rock, was consecrated by Pope John Paul II? ... that 16-year-old Hailie Deegan is the only female driver in the NASCAR K&N Pro Series West? ... that nominations for the UK Picture Editors' Guild awards have included photographs of battlefield conflict, German figure skaters, and Theresa May laughing? 26 February 2018 00:00, 26 February 2018 (UTC) Austin United States Courthouse ... that the Austin United States Courthouse (pictured) was given an abundance of windows and natural lighting to represent the importance of transparency in the judiciary? ... that Arsenal reached today's 2018 EFL Cup Final against Manchester City without playing a game outside London? ... that 40 years ago, Gary Mathias disappeared after leaving a working automobile to walk into California's Plumas National Forest without winter clothing or food, along with four men later found dead? ... that Sudden Rush was the first group to record nā mele paleoleo (Hawaiian hip hop)? ... that in 1955, a white supremacist organization claimed the racial integration of schools in the United States was a plot devised in Moscow to "mongrelize" White Americans? ... that pianist Christopher White arranged four movements of Mahler's unfinished Tenth Symphony for his instrument and made a recording at Rosslyn Hill Unitarian Chapel, Hampstead? ... that Wat Phra Dhammakaya contains a large monument with a million Buddha statues? ... that in 1977, hostages on board a hijacked airliner escaped when their captors fell asleep? 25 February 2018 00:00, 25 February 2018 (UTC) John W. Overton ... that John W. Overton (pictured) was killed in World War I, a year after setting the world track and field records in the indoor mile and indoor 1000 yard (910 m) races in 1917? ... that the organizers of FESTIMA, a festival in Burkina Faso celebrating traditional African masks, estimate that 100,000 people attended in 2016? ... that after the shooting of Trayvon Martin, Seattle author Ijeoma Oluo started writing about her social concerns on a blog that she had previously devoted to food? ... that what at first sight appears to be a single Oedera capensis flowerhead, is in fact typically a group of nine densely cropped heads? ... that because she felt she lacked acting experience, Japanese voice actress Tomori Kusunoki initially auditioned as a singer? ... that the killings at the Alem Bekagn prison were visible from the windows of the Organisation of African Unity headquarters, but were never mentioned by the OAU? ... that the Yellow River put an end to Wanting in 1168? 24 February 2018 00:00, 24 February 2018 (UTC) Su Bai ... that Su Bai (pictured), the first head of Peking University's archaeology department, is considered a pioneer in the archaeology of Buddhism? ... that the deep water squat lobster Eumunida picta is often associated with the coldwater coral Lophelia pertusa? ... that Satan frequently appeared as a comic relief figure in late medieval mystery plays, in which he "frolicked, fell, and farted in the background"? ... that during the first U.S. government shutdown in 1980, the Carter administration dispatched U.S. Marshals to Federal Trade Commission facilities to enforce the shutdown? ... that Evelyn Terhune, a member of the U.S. fencing team at the 1960 Summer Olympics, took up the sport on a dare? ... that HMG Heat and Waterproof Adhesive was used to adhere the 100–200 fragments of the Pioneer helmet? ... that Jaroslav Eminger, an officer in the German Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia during World War II, was acquitted of charges of collaboration and declared a "loyal Bohemian and a brave man"? ... that the Macon Whoopees were named after Doris Day's rendition of the song "Makin' Whoopee"? 23 February 2018 00:00, 23 February 2018 (UTC) General George Washington Resigning His Commission ... that John Trumbull, the painter of General George Washington Resigning His Commission (pictured), considered Washington's resignation "one of the highest moral lessons ever given to the world"? ... that in Sumerian mythology, a group of gods known as the Anunnaki put the goddess Inanna on trial for her attempt to conquer the Underworld? ... that Jean-Jack Queyranne proposed that the regional council of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, like the European Parliament, hold alternating sessions in two cities? ... that in 1910, Monroe Morton constructed the Morton Theatre in the "Hot Corner", a center of African American business and culture in Athens, Georgia? ... that the proposed Major Road Network designation would comprise just 4 percent of England's road length but carry 43 percent of its traffic? ... that Indianapolis Colts defensive back D. J. White forced at least one fumble in each of his four years at Georgia Tech? ... that the Taiwan bush warbler was described in 1917, but was not named as a distinct species until 2000? 22 February 2018 00:00, 22 February 2018 (UTC) I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold ... that the 1928 Charles Demuth painting I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold (pictured) appeared on a US postage stamp in 2013? ... that the marine paradox worm may resemble the common ancestor of humans and mollusks contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2018/February responseCode 3 200 