minqkchcqawgkmrocclcsmkogigopsnqaqmobexi length 6 157737 page 10021 20th-century American newspaper (1924–1958) This article is about the American newspaper. For the British newspaper formerly of this name, see Morning Star (British newspaper). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Daily Worker" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2014) (template removal help) Daily Worker No. 254 of the Daily Worker (November 7, 1927) Type Daily newspaper Format broadsheet and tabloid Founded 1924; 99 years ago (1924) Political alignment Communist; Socialist Language English Ceased publication January 1958 Headquarters New York City, New York Chicago, Illinois Circulation various The Daily Worker was a newspaper published in Chicago founded by communists, socialists, union members, and other activists.[1] Publication began in 1924.[2] It generally reflected the prevailing views of members of the CPUSA; it also reflected a broader spectrum of left-wing opinion. At its peak, the newspaper achieved a circulation of 35,000. Contributors to its pages included Robert Minor and Fred Ellis (cartoonists), Lester Rodney (sports editor), David Karr, Richard Wright, John L. Spivak, Peter Fryer, Woody Guthrie and Louis F. Budenz. History[edit] Origins[edit] The origins of the Daily Worker were with the weekly Ohio Socialist published by the Socialist Party of Ohio in Cleveland from 1917 to November 1919. The Ohio party joined the nascent Communist Labor Party of America (CLP) at the 1919 Emergency National Convention. The Ohio Socialist only used whole numbers. Its final issue was #94 November 19, 1919. The Toiler continued this numbering, even though a typographical error made its debut issue #85 November 26, 1919. Beginning sometime in 1921 the volume number IV was added, perhaps reflecting the publications fourth year in print, though its issue numbers continued the whole number scheme. The final edition of the Toiler was Vol IV #207 January 28, 1922. The Worker continued the Toilers numbering during its run Vol. IV #208 February 2, 1922 to Vol. VI #310 January 12, 1924. The first edition of Daily worker was numbered Vol. I #311.[3] The Ohio Socialist became Toiler in November 1919. In 1920, with the CLP going underground, Toiler became the party's "aboveground" newspaper published by "The Toiler Publishing Association." It remained as the Cleveland aboveground publication of the CLP and its successors until February 1922.[citation needed] In December 1921 the "aboveground" Workers Party of America was founded and the Toiler merged with Workers Council of the Workers' Council of the United States to found the six page weekly The Worker. This became the Daily Worker beginning January 13, 1924.[3] In 1927, the newspaper moved from Chicago to New York.[4] Popular Front changes[edit] May Day parade float with statue reading the Daily Worker Beginning in the Popular Front period of the 1930s, the paper broadened its coverage of the arts and entertainment. In 1935 it established a sports page, with contributions from David Karr, the page was edited and frequently written by Lester Rodney. The paper's sports coverage combined enthusiasm for baseball with the usual Marxist social critique of capitalist society and bourgeois attitudes. It advocated the desegregation of professional sports.[citation needed] Post-World War II[edit] After a short hiatus, the party published a weekend paper called The Worker from 1958 until 1968. A Tuesday edition called The Midweek Worker was added in 1961 and also continued until 1968, when production was accelerated.[citation needed] Two newspapers and a merger[edit] Part of a series on Socialism in the United States History Utopian socialism Bishop Hill Commune Brook Farm Icarians Looking Backward New Harmony Oneida Community Progressive Era 1877 St. Louis general strike 1912 Lawrence textile strike Catholic Worker Movement Green Corn Rebellion Labor unionization Haymarket affair May Day Women's suffrage Repression and persecution American Defense Society American Protective League Communist Party USA and African Americans Communist Party USA in the labor movement 1919–1937 1937–1957 Espionage Act of 1917 First Red Scare John Birch Society McCarthyism Seattle General Strike Smith Act Smith Act trials Anti-war and civil rights movements Black Power movement COINTELPRO "I Have a Dream" March on Washington New Left Poor People's Campaign Contemporary 1999 Seattle WTO protests Financial crisis of 2007–08 Occupy Wall Street People Abern Andrews Avrich Balagroon Bellamy (Edward) Bellamy (Francis) Berger Berkman Bookchin Brisbane Brooks Browder Butler Cabet Cannon Carmichael Chomsky Cockburn Davis (Angela) Davis (Mike) Dean Day Debs Dennis De Leon Dreiser Du Bois Fearing Feinberg Ford Foster Gitlow Gilmore Goldman Graeber Greene Guthrie Hall Hammett Hampton Harrington Hay Haywood (Bill) Haywood (Harry) Hawkins Hedges Heywood (Angela) Heywood (Ezra) Hill Hillquit Hoan Hoffman Jameson Keller Labadie London Lovestone Lum Marcy McReynolds Moore Morello Most Mitchell Newton Noyes Ocasio-Cortez Ochs Parenti Parsons (Albert) Parsons (Lucy) Piker Piven Randolph Ripley Reed Rocha Rocker Roediger Rustin Ruthenberg Sacco Sandburg Sanders Sakai Sawant Seale Seeger Seidel Shachtman Stone Sweezy Thomas Turner West Wolff Wood Zeidler Zerzan Zinn Active organizations Black Riders Liberation Party Black Socialists in America Communist Party USA Democratic Socialists of America Freedom Road Socialist Organization Freedom Socialist Party Green Mountain Peace and Justice Party Green Party of the United States Industrial Workers of the World New Afrikan Black Panther Party Party for Socialism and Liberation Peace and Freedom Party Progressive Labor Party Redneck Revolt Revolutionary Communist Party, USA Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Social Democrats, USA Socialist Equality Party Socialist Party USA Socialist Rifle Association Socialist Workers Party Solidarity Spark Spartacist League Working Families Party Vermont Progressive Party Workers World Party Working Class Party World Socialist Party of the United States Inactive or defunct organizations American Labor Party American Union of Associationists American Workers Party Black Panther Party Colorado Springs Socialists Communist League of America Communist League of Struggle Communist Workers' Party Democratic Socialist Federation Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee Freedom Party of New York Human Rights Party Independent Socialist League International Socialists International Socialist Organization Maoist Internationalist Movement Red Guards New American Movement Nonpartisan League Proletarian Party of America Puerto Rican Socialist Party Revolutionary Socialist League Revolutionary Youth Movement Social Democracy of America Social Democratic Federation Social Democratic Party of America Socialist Labor Party of America Socialist Party of America Students for a Democratic Society Weather Underground White Panther Party Workers Party of the United States Youth International Party Literature Appeal to Reason Current Affairs Daily Worker Dissent International Socialist Review Jacobin The Jungle Looking Backward Monopoly Capital Monthly Review The Other America A People's History of the United States Voluntary Socialism Why Socialism? Z Related topics American Left Anarchism Anarchism in the United States Anarcho-communism Anarcho-primitivism Anarcho-syndicalism Bill of Rights socialism Democratic socialism Green anarchism Individualist anarchism Individualist anarchism in the United States Labor history Labor laws Labor unions Libertarian socialism Marxism Marxism–Leninism Minimum wage Mutualism Post-left anarchy Scientific socialism Social democracy Socialism Trotskyism Utopian socialism Socialism portal United States portal v t e In 1968 the publication was resumed as a New York daily paper, now titled The Daily World. In 1986, the paper merged with the West Coast weekly paper, the People's World. The new People’s Daily World published from 1987 until 1991, when daily publication was abandoned.[citation needed] The paper cut back to a weekly issue and was retitled People's Weekly World (later retitled to People's World as to de-emphasize the weekly component). Print publication of the People's World ceased in 2010 in favor of an online edition.[citation needed] As of 2012[update], People's World claims that, "Peoplesworld.org is a daily news website of, for and by the 99% and the direct descendant of the Daily Worker." Its publisher is Long View Publishing Company. The online newspaper is a member of the International Labor Communications Association and is indexed in the Alternative Press Index. Its staff belong to the Newspaper Guild/CWA, AFL–CIO.[5] Masthead[edit] 1920s[edit] Maurice Becker, cartoonist Jacob Burck, cartoonist Walt Carmon, circulation manager Whittaker Chambers[6] Kyle Crichton as "Robert Forsythe" (father of Robert Crichton) Paul Crouch Samuel Adams Darcy Fred Ellis, cartoonist Harry Freeman[6] Sender Garlin Hugo Gellert, cartoonist Mike Gold, columnist Jolan Gross-Bettelheim, cartoonist L. E. Katterfeld ("New York representative"[6]) Robert Minor, cartoonist Richard B. Moore Harvey O'Connor ("effective editor"[6]) Moissaye Joseph Olgin 1930s[edit] Robert Bendiner Richard O. Boyer Louis F. Budenz, managing editor Ben Burns Benjamin J. Davis Jr., editor Theodore Dreiser Nelson Frank Harry Gannes, foreign editor Eugene Gordon Woody Guthrie, "Woody Sez" columnist for People's World Clarence Hathaway, editor Syd Hoff, cartoonist Jacob Kainen, cartoonist Sergey Nikolaevich Kurnakov Edna Lewis Walter Lowenfels Samuel Putnam Lester Rodney, sports writer Howard Rushmore Ryan Walker, cartoonist / editor Marguerite Young, Washington DC bureau chief 1940s[edit] Edith Anderson-Schröder, culture editor Bill Mardo Alexander Saxton 1950s[edit] John Gates Si Gerso contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Daily_Worker responseCode 3 200 