mircekpgqcjkfqgklgycjqgckammuefkrareuapo length 6 191777 page 10024 First United States human spaceflight (1961) Mercury-Redstone 3 Still frame of Alan Shepard taken by a motion picture camera aboard Freedom 7 Mission type Test flight Operator NASA Mission duration 15 minutes, 28 seconds[1] Range 263.1 nautical miles (302.8 statute miles, 487.3 km) Apogee 101.2 nautical miles (116.5 statute miles, 187.5 km) Spacecraft properties Spacecraft Mercury No.7 Manufacturer McDonnell Aircraft Launch mass 4,040 pounds (1,830 kg) Landing mass 2,316 pounds (1,051 kg) Crew Crew size 1 Members Alan Shepard Callsign Freedom 7 Start of mission Launch date May 5, 1961, 14:34:13 (1961-05-05UTC14:34:13Z) UTC Rocket Redstone MRLV MR-7 Launch site Cape Canaveral LC-5 End of mission Recovered by USS Lake Champlain Landing date May 5, 1961, 14:49:35 (1961-05-05UTC14:49:36Z) UTC Landing site North Atlantic Ocean 27°14′N 75°53′W﻿ / ﻿27.23°N 75.88°W﻿ / 27.23; -75.88 Spacecraft name as painted on the capsule side Alan Bartlett Shepard, Jr. Project Mercury Crewed missions ← Mercury-Redstone BD Mercury-Redstone 4 → Mercury-Redstone 3, or Freedom 7, was the first United States human spaceflight, on May 5, 1961, piloted by astronaut Alan Shepard. It was the first crewed flight of Project Mercury. The project had the ultimate objective of putting an astronaut into orbit around the Earth and returning him safely. Shepard's mission was a 15-minute suborbital flight with the primary objective of demonstrating his ability to withstand the high g-forces of launch and atmospheric re-entry. Shepard named his space capsule Freedom 7, setting a precedent for the remaining six Mercury astronauts naming their spacecraft and the format of their names, the number 7 later included in all the crewed Mercury spacecraft names to honor NASA's first group of seven astronauts. His spacecraft reached an altitude of 101.2 nautical miles (116.5 statute miles, 187.5 km) and traveled a downrange distance of 263.1 nautical miles (302.8 statute miles, 487.3 km). It was the fourth Mercury flight launched with the Mercury-Redstone Launch Vehicle,[Note 1] from Cape Canaveral, Florida, close to the Atlantic Ocean. During the flight, Shepard observed the Earth and tested the capsule's attitude control system, turning the capsule around to face its blunt heat shield forward for atmospheric re-entry. He also tested the retrorockets which would return later missions from orbit, though the capsule did not have enough energy to remain in orbit. After re-entry, the capsule landed by parachute on the North Atlantic Ocean off the Bahamas. Shepard and the capsule were picked up by helicopter and brought to U.S. Navy aircraft carrier USS Lake Champlain. The mission was a technical success, though American pride in the accomplishment was dampened by the fact that just three weeks before, the Soviet Union had launched the first human in space, Yuri Gagarin, who completed one orbit on Vostok 1. In 2017 the first National Astronaut Day was held on May 5 to pay tribute to this first U.S. flight. Preparation[edit] See also: Project Mercury The spacecraft for MR-3, Mercury capsule #7, was delivered to Cape Canaveral on December 9, 1960. It had originally been expected that a mission could be launched soon after the spacecraft was available, but Capsule #7 turned out to require extensive development and testing work before it was deemed safe for flight. However, as it had been earmarked since the summer as the first crewed spacecraft, the decision was taken to delay the mission until this particular capsule was ready, with a tentative launch date of March 6, rather than use an alternative capsule.[2] The booster originally intended for the flight, Redstone #3,[3] had been delivered to the Cape in early December;[4] however, it was then used on the MR-1A test flight on December 19.[5] The replacement, Redstone #7, did not arrive at the Cape until late March; by this time, however, the mission had already been postponed to await the results of another test flight.[6] In late 1960, there had been a growing number of concerns about the safety of the Redstone launch vehicle; the MR-2 test flight, carrying Ham the chimpanzee, had experienced technical problems during the launch, leading to the spacecraft flying too high, too far and too fast.[7] As a result, the mission was two minutes longer than planned, and the re-entry subjected Ham to 14.7g rather than the planned figure of approximately 12g. The splashdown point was sixty miles from the nearest recovery ship, and it was over two and a half hours before a helicopter could recover the capsule and its passenger – by which time it had almost sunk.[8] As a result, NASA was unwilling to launch the MR-3 mission without further development work; by late February, there were still seven major alterations they had made to the booster which required testing.[9] An additional testing flight was accordingly added to the schedule, MR-BD (for "Booster Development"; it was originally known as MR-2A). This would launch on March 28, pushing the MR-3 flight back a month to April 25.[10] The MR-BD flight was almost completely successful, ensuring that the crewed MR-3 flight could proceed without further significant delay.[11] The pilot for MR-3 had been chosen several months in advance, in early January, by the head of the program, Robert R. Gilruth. He had selected Alan Shepard (Navy) as the primary pilot, with John Glenn (Marine) and Gus Grissom (Air Force) as his backups; the other members of the Mercury Seven continued to train for later missions. The three names were announced to the press on February 22 without any indication as to which of the three was expected to fly the mission.[12] Shepard's name was only announced publicly after the initial launch attempt had been canceled, as Gilruth wished to keep his options open in the event that last-minute personnel changes were required.[13] Glenn served as Shepard's backup on launch day,[14] with Grissom focusing on training for MR-4, the next suborbital mission.[15] Naming[edit] Captain Shepard dubbed his capsule "Freedom 7". Per Shepard, "Pilots have always named their planes. It's a tradition. It never occurred to me not to name the capsule." Shepard discussed the name with his wife, Louise, backup pilot John Glenn, and Robert R. Gilruth, and all liked it. Contrary to popular belief, the "7" was not a reference to the seven original astronauts selected for Mercury but rather to the fact that Shepard's spacecraft was factory model no. 7. However, the other astronauts liked the symbolism, and each appended 7 to their spacecraft names as well. Thus, Shepard set a double precedent, both for naming the Mercury spacecraft at all, and for the common structure of their naming.[16] Flight[edit] The initial launch attempt, on May 2, was canceled due to weather problems two hours and 20 minutes before the launch time, with Shepard waiting in a hangar already suited and prepared. The flight was rescheduled for two days later, when it was delayed one more day due to inclement weather conditions, until 5 May, with an expected launch time of 7:20 am. EST.[Note 2][17] The countdown began at 8:30 p.m. the previous night, with Shepard waking up and eating a breakfast of steak and eggs with toast, coffee, and orange juice (the steak and eggs breakfast would soon become a tradition for astronauts the morning of a launch). He entered the spacecraft at 5:15 am. ET, just over two hours before the planned 7:20 launch time. At 7:05 am, the launch was held for an hour to let cloud cover clear – good visibility would be essential for photographs of the Earth – and fix a power supply unit; shortly after the count restarted, another hold was called in order to reboot a computer at Goddard Space Flight Center. The count was eventually resumed, after slightly over two and a half hours of unplanned holds, and continued with no further faults.[18] All of the delays resulted in Shepard lying on his back in the capsule for almost three hours, by which point he complained to the blockhouse crew that he had a severe need to urinate (because the mission would last under 20 minutes, nobody had thought to equip the Mercury with a urine collection device). The crew told him that this was impossible as they would have to set the White Room back up and waste considerable amounts of time removing the Mercury's heavily bolted hatch. An irate Shepard then announced that if he could not get out for a bathroom trip, he would simply urinate in his suit. When the blockhouse protested that that would short out the medical electrodes on his body, he told them to simply turn the power off. They complied, and Shepard emptied his bladder. Because of the position he was sitting in, the urine pooled somewhat underneath his back and with oxygen flowing through the spacesuit, he was soon dried out, and the countdown resumed.[19] Launch of MR-3 on May 5, 1961 Mercury-Redstone 3 finally lifted off at 9:34 am. ET, watched by an estimated 45 million television viewers in the United States.[20] Shepard was subjected to a maximum acceleration of 6.3g just before the Redstone engine shut down, two minutes and 22 seconds after launch. Freedom 7's space-fixed velocity was 5,134 miles per hour (8,262 km/h), close to the planned value. Upon shutdown of the booster, the escape tower was jettisoned. Ten seconds later came capsule separation: the capsule detonated the explosive bolts on the Marman clamping ring that joined it to the booster and fired its posigrade rockets to gain distance. After capsule separation, the automated attitude control system (the Automatic Stabilization Control System, or ASCS) damped out any residual tumbling motions and then yawed Freedom 7 around 180 degrees, so the retrorockets would face forward ready for firing.[21] Shepard now began testing manual control of the spacecraft's orientation. For redundancy purposes, the Mercury spacecraft's manual attitude control system used a different set of control jets tha contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 43 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Freedom_7 responseCode 3 200 