mkhiuguqlefsiasshqaskafogeskccfiegwmtsui page 5743 This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (May 2020) (template removal help) Hume's principle or HP says that the number of Fs is equal to the number of Gs if and only if there is a one-to-one correspondence (a bijection) between the Fs and the Gs. HP can be stated formally in systems of second-order logic. Hume's principle is named for the Scottish philosopher David Hume and was coined by George Boolos. HP plays a central role in Gottlob Frege's philosophy of mathematics. Frege shows that HP and suitable definitions of arithmetical notions entail all axioms of what we now call second-order arithmetic. This result is known as Frege's theorem, which is the foundation for a philosophy of mathematics known as neo-logicism. Origins[edit] Hume's principle appears in Frege's Foundations of Arithmetic (§63),[1] which quotes from Part III of Book I of David Hume's A Treatise of Human Nature (1740). Hume there sets out seven fundamental relations between ideas. Concerning one of these, proportion in quantity or number, Hume argues that our reasoning about proportion in quantity, as represented by geometry, can never achieve "perfect precision and exactness", since its principles are derived from sense-appearance. He contrasts this with reasoning about number or arithmetic, in which such a precision can be attained: Algebra and arithmetic [are] the only sciences in which we can carry on a chain of reasoning to any degree of intricacy, and yet preserve a perfect exactness and certainty. We are possessed of a precise standard, by which we can judge of the equality and proportion of numbers; and according as they correspond or not to that standard, we determine their relations, without any possibility of error. When two numbers are so combined, as that the one has always a unit answering to every unit of the other, we pronounce them equal; and it is for want of such a standard of equality in [spatial] extension, that geometry can scarce be esteemed a perfect and infallible science. (I. III. I.)[2] Note Hume's use of the word number in the ancient sense, to mean a set or collection of things rather than the common modern notion of "positive integer". The ancient Greek notion of number (arithmos) is of a finite plurality composed of units. See Aristotle, Metaphysics, 1020a14 and Euclid, Elements, Book VII, Definition 1 and 2. The contrast between the old and modern conception of number is discussed in detail in Mayberry (2000). Influence on set theory[edit] The principle that cardinal number was to be characterized in terms of one-to-one correspondence had previously been used by Georg Cantor, whose writings Frege knew. The suggestion has therefore been made that Hume's principle ought better be called "Cantor's Principle" or "The Hume-Cantor Principle". But Frege criticized Cantor on the ground that Cantor defines cardinal numbers in terms of ordinal numbers, whereas Frege wanted to give a characterization of cardinals that was independent of the ordinals. Cantor's point of view, however, is the one embedded in contemporary theories of transfinite numbers, as developed in axiomatic set theory. References[edit] Anderson, D.; Zalta, E. (2004). "Frege, Boolos, and Logical Objects" (PDF). Journal of Philosophical Logic. 33: 1–26. doi:10.1023/B:LOGI.0000019236.64896.fd. S2CID 6620015. Boolos, George (1990). "The Standard of Equality of Numbers". In Boolos, G. (ed.). Meaning and Method: Essays in Honour of Hilary Putnam. Cambridge University Press. pp. 261–277. ISBN 978-0-521-36083-8. Boolos, George (1998). "§II. "Frege Studies". Logic, Logic, and Logic. Harvard University Press. pp. 133–342. ISBN 978-0-674-53767-5. Burgess, John (2018) [2005]. Fixing Frege. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-18706-8. Frege, Gottlob (1884). Die Grundlagen der Arithmetik: Eine logisch mathematische Untersuchung [The Foundations of Arithmetic]. Breslau: Wilhelm Koebner. Hume, David (1739–1740). A Treatise of Human Nature. Mayberry, John P. (2000). The Foundations of Mathematics in the Theory of Sets. Encyclopedia of Mathematics and its Applications. Vol. 83. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-77034-7. Citations[edit] ^ "IV. Der Begriff der Anzahl § 63. Die Möglichkeit der eindeutigen Zuordnung als solches. Logisches Bedenken, dass die Gleichheit für diesen Fall besonders erklärt wird". Frege 1884 – via Project Gutenberg. §63. Ein solches Mittel nennt schon Hume: »Wenn zwei Zahlen so combinirt werden, dass die eine immer eine Einheit hat, die jeder Einheit der andern entspricht, so geben wir sie als gleich an.« ^ "Part III. Of Knowledge and Probability: Sect. I. Of Knowledge". Hume 1739–1740 – via Project Gutenberg. External links[edit] Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: "Frege's Logic, Theorem, and Foundations for Arithmetic" by Edward Zalta. "The Logical and Metaphysical Foundations of Classical Mathematics." Arche: The Centre for Philosophy of Logic, Language, Mathematics and Mind at St. Andrew's University. v t e David Hume Books A Treatise of Human Nature An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals Essays, Moral, Political, and Literary Four Dissertations Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion The History of England The History of Great Britain Criticism Argument for the existence of God from design Problem of induction Is–ought problem Philosophy Hume's principle Hume's law Hume's fork The Missing Shade of Blue "Of Miracles" Scottish Enlightenment Empiricism Price–specie flow mechanism Related Hume Studies A Treatise of Human Nature (Abstract) contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Hume%27s_principle responseCode 3 200 