mkmgjgiiqmykpeqkigoelkncykucfqusnscgomtc page 10051 Directly elected legislature of the European Union For the body of the Council of Europe, see Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. For the latest elections, see 2019 European Parliament election. European Parliament Bulgarian: Европейски парламент Croatian: Europski parlament Czech: Evropský parlament Danish: Europa-Parlamentet Dutch: Europees Parlement English: European parliament Estonian: Euroopa Parlament Finnish: Euroopan parlamentti French: Parlement européen German: Europäisches Parlament Greek: Ευρωπαϊκό Κοινοβούλιο Hungarian: Európai Parlament Irish: Parlaimint na hEorpa Italian: Parlamento europeo Latvian: Eiropas Parlaments Lithuanian: Europos Parlamentas Maltese: Parlament Ewropew Polish: Parlament Europejski Portuguese: Parlamento Europeu Romanian: Parlamentul European Slovak: Európsky parlament Slovene: Evropski parlament Spanish: Parlamento Europeo Swedish: Europaparlamentet 9th European Parliament Type Type De facto lower house of bicameral legislature Term limits No History Founded 10 September 1952; 71 years ago (1952-09-10) Preceded by Common Assembly of the European Coal and Steel Community Leadership President Roberta Metsola, EPP since 18 January 2022 Vice-Presidents First Vice-President: Othmar Karas, EPP other Vice-Presidents: See List since 18 January 2022 Secretary-General Alessandro Chiocchetti since 1 January 2023 Structure Seats 705 Political groups EPP (178) S&D (141) Renew (101) Greens/EFA (72) ECR (66) ID (60) The Left (37) NI (50) Committees 22 Budgets Budgetary Control Economic & Monetary Affairs Employment & Social Affairs Environment, Public Health & Food Safety Industry, Research & Energy Internal Market & Consumer Protection Transport & Tourism Regional Development Agriculture & Rural Development Fisheries Culture & Education Legal Affairs Civil Liberties, Justice & Home Affairs Constitutional Affairs Women's Rights & Gender Equality Petitions Foreign Affairs Human Rights Security & Defence Development International Trade Length of term 5 years Salary €8,932.86 monthly Elections Voting system Chosen by member state. Systems include: Party list PR STV in Ireland and Malta de facto FPTP/SMP (only in the German-speaking electoral college in Belgium) First election 7–10 June 1979 Last election 23–26 May 2019 Next election 2024 Motto In varietate concordia (United in diversity) Meeting place Louise Weiss Strasbourg, France Espace Léopold Brussels, Belgium Website www.europarl.europa.eu Constitution Treaties of the European Union The European Parliament (EP) is one of the legislative bodies of the European Union and one of its seven institutions. Together with the Council of the European Union (known as the Council and informally as the Council of Ministers), it adopts European legislation, following a proposal by the European Commission. The Parliament is composed of 705 members (MEPs). It represents the second-largest democratic electorate in the world (after the Parliament of India), with an electorate of 375 million eligible voters in 2009.[1][2][3] Since 1979, the Parliament has been directly elected every five years by the citizens of the European Union through universal suffrage. Voter turnout in parliamentary elections decreased each time after 1979 until 2019, when voter turnout increased by eight percentage points, and rose above 50% for the first time since 1994.[4] The voting age is 18 in all EU member states except for Malta, Austria and Germany, where it is 16, and Greece, where it is 17. Belgian citizens can request to vote from the age of 16 as well.[5] Although the European Parliament has legislative power, as does the Council, it does not formally possess the right of initiative as most national parliaments of the member states do, with the right of initiative being solely a prerogative of the European Commission.[6][7] The Parliament is the "first institution" of the European Union (mentioned first in its treaties and having ceremonial precedence over the other EU institutions),[8] and shares equal legislative and budgetary powers with the Council (except on a few issues where special legislative procedures apply). It likewise has equal control over the EU budget. Ultimately, the European Commission, which serves as the executive branch of the EU, is accountable to Parliament. In particular, Parliament can decide whether or not to approve the European Council's nominee for President of the Commission, and is further tasked with approving (or rejecting) the appointment of the commission as a whole. It can subsequently force the current Commission to resign by adopting a motion of censure.[6] The president of the European Parliament is the body's speaker and presides over the multi-party chamber. The five largest political groups are the European People's Party Group (EPP), the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats (S&D), Renew Europe (previously ALDE), the Greens/European Free Alliance (Greens/EFA) and Identity and Democracy (ID). The last EU-wide election was held in 2019. The Parliament's headquarters are in Strasbourg, France,[9] and has its administrative offices in Luxembourg City. Plenary sessions are "normally held in Strasbourg for four days a month, but sometimes there are additional sessions in Brussels",[10] while the Parliament's committee meetings are held primarily in Brussels, Belgium.[10][11] History[edit] Further information: History of the European Union The European Parliament's flag until 1983 The Parliament, like the other EU institutions, was not designed in its current form when it first met on 10 September 1952. One of the oldest common institutions, it began as the Common Assembly of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC). It was a consultative assembly of 78 appointed parliamentarians drawn from the national parliaments of member states, having no legislative powers.[12][13] The change since its foundation was highlighted by Professor David Farrell of the University of Manchester: "For much of its life, the European Parliament could have been justly labelled a 'multi-lingual talking shop'."[14] Its development since its foundation shows how the European Union's structures have evolved without a clear 'master plan'. Tom Reid of The Washington Post has said of the union that "nobody would have deliberately designed a government as complex and as redundant as the EU".[15] Even the Parliament's three working locations, which have switched several times, are a result of various agreements or lack of agreements. Although most MEPs would prefer to be based just in Brussels, at John Major's 1992 Edinburgh summit, France engineered a treaty amendment to confirm the European Parliament's seat permanently in Strasbourg.[12][16] Consultative assembly[edit] Session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the former House of Europe in Strasbourg, France in January 1967. Willy Brandt, West German minister for Foreign Affairs, is speaking. The body was not mentioned in the original Schuman Declaration. It was assumed or hoped that difficulties with the British[clarification needed] would be resolved to allow the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to perform legislative tasks. A separate Assembly was introduced during negotiations on the Treaty as an institution to counterbalance and monitor the executive while providing democratic legitimacy.[12] The wording of the ECSC Treaty demonstrated leaders' desire for more than a normal consultative assembly by allowing for direct election and using the term "representatives of the people". Its early importance was highlighted when the Assembly was given the task of drawing up the draft treaty to establish a European Political Community. By this document, the Ad Hoc Assembly was established on 13 September 1952[17] with extra members, but after the failure of the negotiated and proposed European Defence Community (French parliament veto), the project was dropped.[18] Despite this, the European Economic Community and Euratom were established in 1958 by the Treaties of Rome. The Common Assembly was shared by all three communities (which had separate executives) and it renamed itself the European Parliamentary Assembly.[12] The first meeting was held on 19 March 1958 having been set up in Luxembourg City, it elected Schuman as its president and on 13 May it rearranged itself to sit according to political ideology rather than nationality.[19] This is seen as the birth of the modern European Parliament, with Parliament's 50 years celebrations being held in March 2008 rather than 2002.[20] The three communities merged their remaining organs as the European Communities in 1967, and the body's name was changed to the current "European Parliament" in 1962.[12] In 1970 the Parliament was granted power over areas of the Communities' budget, which were expanded to the whole budget in 1975.[21] Under the Rome Treaties, the Parliament should have become elected. However, the Council was required to agree a uniform voting system beforehand, which it failed to do. The Parliament threatened to take the Council to the European Court of Justice; this led to a compromise whereby the Council would agree to elections, but the issue of voting systems would be put off until a later date.[22] For its sessions the assembly, and later the parliament, until 1999 convened in the same premises as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe: the House of Europe[23][24] until 1977, and the Palace of Europe until 1999. Elected Parliament[edit] A plenary session in the Palace of Europe in April 1985, in Strasbourg, France. It was the EP's hemicycle until 1999 when a new building was constructed in Strasbourg, France. In 1979, its members were directly elected for the first time. This sets it apart from similar institutions such as those of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe or Pan-African Parliament which are appointed.[12][25][26] After that first election,  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/European_Parliament responseCode 3 200 