nayifatmicpqnenimiqmkasirirmoaogeolesioi length 6 281873 page 10012 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 30 September 2023 00:00, 30 September 2023 (UTC) Chelsea Waterside Park ... that the design for the water playground at Chelsea Waterside Park (pictured) was criticized because local residents thought that the sprinklers resembled sex toys? ... that Himmatul Aliyah was born in Tangerang and represents Jakarta in Indonesia's House of Representatives, while Himmatul Alyah was born in Jakarta and represented Tangerang? ... that a $10 calculator was among the best-rated Nintendo Switch games? ... that EastEnders producers decided to kill off Chantelle Atkins at the conclusion of a domestic-abuse plot after learning of the high statistic of women killed by a partner? ... that the 1874 Alabama gubernatorial election was marred by violence and fraud? ... that soprano Vera Curtis was the first singer trained exclusively in the United States to perform with the Metropolitan Opera? ... that the Daft Punk track "Infinity Repeating" is considered by the duo to be their "last song ever"? ... that Nunuk Nuraini was described as a hero for developing the mi goreng flavor of Indomie instant noodles? 29 September 2023 00:00, 29 September 2023 (UTC) Jonathan Allen ... that Jonathan Allen (pictured) left journalism for politics before quitting 40 days later? ... that the Dvorichna settlement hromada has remained divided between Russia and Ukraine since the 2022 Kharkiv counteroffensive? ... that Chanig ar Gall joined her husband Charlez ar Gall in Breton-language broadcasting after learning Breton? ... that South Korean band Seventeen partnered with Apple to let fans create remixes of their song "Darl+ing" on GarageBand? ... that tickets on secondary markets for the 2023 Leagues Cup final ranged from $484 to $12,000 within a day of release? ... that 13 contemporary Dubliners reenacted The Last Supper by Leonardo da Vinci for a mural installed in their city's "Italian Quarter"? ... that Chaimas Kaplanas took part in four hunger strikes during his imprisonment at Kaunas Prison? ... that a reviewer for The Sims 2: Nightlife said that a more accurate name would be "The Sims: Slutting About"? 28 September 2023 00:00, 28 September 2023 (UTC) Te'omim Cave ... that the Te'omim Cave (pictured) in Israel was home to a Bronze Age alabaster quarry, a refuge cave during the Jewish–Roman wars, and a possible center for necromantic activity in late antiquity? ... that the 1989 Serbian general election was the last one-party election in Serbia? ... that fans of Taylor Swift solved 33 million puzzles in less than a day to find out 1989 (Taylor's Version)'s "vault" tracks? ... that John Romita Sr. has been credited with introducing romance comic themes to Spider-Man comic books? ... that the Waitangiroto Nature Reserve is the only known nesting area for the eastern great egret in New Zealand? ... that Ben Brown was the seventh member of his family to play American football for the Ole Miss Rebels? ... that according to David Baddiel's book Jews Don't Count, antisemitism has become perceived as a "second-class racism"? ... that one reviewer described a TV station in St. Louis as appearing to be "not serious about the news"? 27 September 2023 00:00, 27 September 2023 (UTC) Cyprian Norwid ... that the 19th-century poet Cyprian Norwid (pictured), now recognized as one of the most important Polish poets, led a poverty-stricken life and his works were rarely appreciated until decades after his death? ... that ancient Rome's Temple of Piety was closely connected with the legend of a daughter who breastfed an imprisoned parent? ... that the librarian Paul Needham has argued for the "respectful burial of the human remains" included in a book bound in human skin? ... that the Solution and EU Party aimed to represent 30 percent of Turkish Cypriots, but failed to enter the Northern Cypriot parliament? ... that Seattle Sounders FC players held their practices over Zoom during part of their 2020 season? ... that according to Rolling Stone, Lauren Jenkins blended music and acting for No Saint "in ways not currently common practice" in country music? ... that Thorfinn's journey to Vinland in the manga Vinland Saga was influenced by the author's anxieties during the Cold War and the September 11 attacks? ... that the bicolor molly inevitably goes off the deep end in adulthood? 26 September 2023 00:00, 26 September 2023 (UTC) The Big Apple ... that there is a 7.5-metre-tall (25 ft) statue of an apple (pictured) in Waitomo, New Zealand? ... that Julian Hill was the first player from Campbell University to make an NFL roster, but Brevin Allen was the first to play in a game? ... that a freelance game developer successfully pitched a video game with a picture of a car driving around a lake? ... that when Valerie Cowie was appointed a senior lecturer, one of her referees wrote that his "only reservation is that the post ... does not adequately do justice to her high academic status"? ... that the Museum of Norwich at the Bridewell operated as a residence, a house of correction, a factory, and finally a museum? ... that Charlotte Haining was an International Jury Member for the selection of Finland's 2020 Eurovision Song Contest entry? ... that a Maine TV station was so protective of its evening newscast that it preempted nearly 40 percent of all NBC Sports programming in 1994? ... that Hồn – trăng – máu, Hạc San's concept album, consists solely of the 29-minute title track? 25 September 2023 00:00, 25 September 2023 (UTC) Curiosity's descent seen by the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter ... that the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter photographed Curiosity (pictured) as it landed on Mars? ... that the Orangeburg Massacre was the first time police shot and killed students on an American university campus? ... that heritage properties cared for by An Taisce include a guildhall, a marsh, a castle, a Quaker cemetery, and Babe's Bridge? ... that David Dayen, executive editor of The American Prospect, argues in his 2020 book that monopolies are so interwoven with our lives that it is impossible to escape them? ... that much of the research in dress history has been done from documents, illustrations, and photographs rather than by studying items of clothing? ... that when Zhu Cilang was asked why his family lost the Mandate of Heaven, he blamed it on their "treacherous ministers"? ... that State Auto Mutual's life-size nativity scene was donated to the Museum of Catholic Art and History in 2023 for display at St. Joseph Cathedral? ... that Naomi Klein and Naomi Wolf are Doppelgangers? 24 September 2023 00:00, 24 September 2023 (UTC) Chambers Street station ... that the Chambers Street station (pictured) was once called "easily one of the most decrepit stations" in the New York City Subway system? ... that Arsjad Rasjid said that he learned of his appointment as chairman of Ganjar Pranowo's presidential campaign from a friend showing him the news? ... that the Brazilian military government changed the ochre on the proposed flag of Mato Grosso do Sul to blue so as to match the colors of the national flag? ... that The Last Hope: Dead Zone Survival has been considered one of the worst video games of 2023? ... that Kevin Feige perceived a "direct parallel" between the experiences of real people during the COVID-19 pandemic and those of fictional characters in the Marvel Cinematic Universe during the Blip? ... that the 1930s Polish Andean expeditions have  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 75 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2023/September responseCode 3 200 