ncecoceooolguckieaeohqlkleigbgnimgmmrgtm length 6 498237 page 10042 Collaborations, tasks and news about English Wikipedia Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Chat Meetups Directories (Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects) Welcome to the community portal! Shortcuts P:WP WP:COM This page provides a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news about English Wikipedia. New to Wikipedia? See the contributing to Wikipedia page or our tutorial for everything you need to know to get started. For a listing of internal project pages of interest, see the department directory. Interact more For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard. Help desk Ask questions about how to use or edit Wikipedia The Teahouse Friendly help for newcomers Reference desk Ask research questions about any topic except Wikipedia itself WikiProjects Work with other editors on a shared area of interest Dispute resolution Get help resolving disputes Village pump sections (view all) Policy Discuss existing and proposed policies Technical Discuss technical issues about Wikipedia Proposals Discuss new proposals that are not policy-related Idea lab Incubate new ideas before formally proposing them WMF Discuss issues involving the Wikimedia Foundation Miscellaneous Post messages that do not fit into any other category Help out You can help improve the articles listed below! This list updates frequently, so check back here for more tasks to try. (See Wikipedia:Maintenance or the Task Center for further information.) Fix spelling and grammar Mentally ill people in United States jails and prisons Harold Radford Aljoscha Pause Zameer Uddin Shah Ciamis More... • Learn how Fix wikilinks Ethological halter List of battles 1301–1600 Shandan horse Coverage of Google Street View The horse in Nordic mythology More... • Learn how Update with new information Queensland Certificate of Education Port of New Orleans Venues of the 2026 Winter Olympics and Paralympics United States government safe and vault door specifications Northland Juices More... • Learn how Expand short articles Plasmodium colombiense Plasmodium bucki Plasmodium caucasica Plasmodium vastator Plasmodium dissanaikei More... • Learn how Check and add references Hassan Saajin Greg Cunningham Polonization HMS Rothesay (F107) Vishwakarma (caste) More... • Learn how Fix original research issues Gender empathy gap List of Mighty Med characters Samarium–cobalt magnet Major League Baseball schedule Anarkali Salwar Suit More... • Learn how Improve lead sections Seamus Blackley Torture of former Turkish diplomats, 2019 Tachinini Joseph Yobo Multilingual Multiscript Plant Name Database More... • Learn how Add an image Grand Texas Theme Park Gaeltacht Quarter, Belfast Gujarat Marine Police Geography of Serbia Ga-Rankuwa More... • Learn how Translate and clean up Revolution of the Reforms Free Art License 21. Peron Venezuelan civil war of 1848–1849 Abram Grushko More... • Learn how Help counter systemic bias by creating new articles on important women. Help improve popular pages, especially those of low quality. This section is transcluded from Wikipedia:Community portal/Opentask. (edit | history) This week's article for improvement is: Human-centered design Previous selections: 3dfx · Play (theatre) · Severe weather This week's backlog of the week is: Wikipedia:Categories for discussion/Speedy Community bulletin board This section is transcluded from Wikipedia:Community bulletin board. (edit | history) How to add to the community bulletin board The community bulletin board has 2 sections that can be used by Wikipedians for announcements: "Events and projects" and "WikiProject notices". In general, keep it concise (under 2 lines), refrain from fancy formatting, and new entries should be placed at the top of their section. Before editing, make sure you are on Wikipedia:Community bulletin board, not Wikipedia:Community portal, where the board is transcluded. Events and projects: In this section, only organized events, projects, and/or competitions should be listed. These are organized by how often they occur: The Yearly section is for uncommon events, like events that only occur every year, once, or irregularly. The Monthly section is for events that occur each month, or are always ongoing. WikiProject notices: In this section, any announcement, request for help or other notice from a WikiProject should be listed here. Entries should be signed, and ordered from newest to oldest. Entries are to be removed after a period of 6 months. Welcome to the community bulletin board, which is a page used for announcements from WikiProjects and other groups. Included here are coordinated efforts, events, projects, and other general announcements. Dashboard News Task Center Goings-on Meetups In the media Mailing lists Events and projects Yearly or infrequent events WikiProject Women in Green is holding a month-long Good Article Edit-a-thon event in October 2023! Monthly or continuous events Monthly contest, WikiProject Military history. The contest department of the Military history WikiProject aims to motivate increased quality in military history articles by offering a form of friendly competition for project members making improvements to them. The primary contest available is a simple rolling competition that awards points for improving articles. The contest runs from the first to last day of each month. Guild of Copy Editors' editing drive. The November 2023 backlog drive is a one-month-long effort by the Guild of Copy Editors to reduce the backlog of articles that require copy editing: those carrying the {{copy edit}} tag (also {{awkward}}, {{copy edit section}}, {{inappropriate person}}, and {{copy edit inline}} and their redirects) or are listed on the GOCE Requests page. It began 1 November 2023, 00:00 (UTC) and ends 31 November 2023, 23:59 (UTC). Wikipedia:WikiProject Women in Red 2023 Events: WP:WIR/EVENTS - updated monthly The 100,000 Challenge. The quest to bring about 100,000 article improvements and creations globally through a series of 50,000/10,000/1000 Challenges for different regions and countries. This is a loose challenge, a list will not be maintained here, but the components will function independently on each of the subpages. Will be updated every week or two. The 50,000 Destubbing Challenge is a long term challenge to destub 50,000 articles on English Wikipedia for every country and topic. It may take decades to accomplish, it may take ten years, it all depends on how many people actively contribute. WikiProject notices Also consider posting WikiProject, Task Force, and Collaboration news at The Signpost's WikiProject Report page. Please include your signature when adding a listing here. WikiProject Outlines news: New outlines are: Outline of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war Outline of the Iraq War The Outline of the week is Outline of literature. Outline of lichens has received Featured list status! Feel free to help improve them. —The Transhumanist 07:51, 6 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Due to recent events, the revival of WikiProject Artsakh is being discussed here. If you'd like to contribute, please join! Sawyer-mcdonell (talk) 03:08, 30 September 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Unreferenced BLP rescue is working to clear the unreferenced biographies of living persons backlog. Ensuring reliable sourcing for all claims about living people is a high priority, and all help is appreciated! Thebiguglyalien (talk) 16:06, 17 April 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Technical news This section is transcluded from Wikipedia:Tech news. (edit | history) Latest tech news from the Wikimedia technical community. Please tell other users about these changes. Not all changes will affect you. Translations are available. Recent changes Four new wikis have been created: a Wikipedia in Moroccan Amazigh (w:zgh:) [1] a Wikipedia in Dagaare (w:dga:) [2] a Wikipedia in Toba Batak (w:bbc:) [3] a Wikiquote in Banjar (q:bjn:) [4] Problems Last week, users who previously visited Meta-Wiki or Wikimedia Commons and then became logged out on those wikis could not log in again. The problem is now resolved. [5] Last week, some pop-up dialogs and menus were shown with the wrong font size. The problem is now resolved. [6] Changes later this week The new version of MediaWiki will be on test wikis and MediaWiki.org from 14 November. It will be on non-Wikipedia wikis and some Wikipedias from 15 November. It will be on all wikis from 16 November (calendar). Future changes Reference Previews are coming to many wikis as a default feature. They are popups for references, similar to the PagePreviews feature. You can opt out of seeing them. If you are using the gadgets Reference Tooltips or Navigation Popups, you won’t see Reference Previews. Deployment is planned for November 22, 2023. Canary (also known as heartbeat) events will be produced into Wikimedia event streams from December 11. Streams users are advised to filter out these events, by discarding all events where meta.domain == "canary". Updates to Pywikibot or wikimedia-streams will discard these events by default. [7] Tech news prepared by Tech News writers and posted by bot • Contribute • Translate • Get help • Give feedback • Subscribe or unsubscribe. Requests for comment Discussions in the following areas have requested wider attention via Requests for comment: Biographies Economy and trade History and geography Language and linguistics Media, the arts, and architecture Politics, government, and law Religion and philosophy Science and mathematics Society, sports, and culture Wikipedia policies and guidelines Wikipedia style and naming WikiProjects and collaborations Wikipedia technical issues and templates Wikipedia proposals Unsorted General notices Eligible users are invited to submit a nomination statement for the Arbitration Committee elections at the elections page. Centralized discussion Village pumps policy tech proposals idea lab WMF misc Nominations for the Arbitr contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal responseCode 3 200 