nchecccmpefqmmokvksabayclmsomsnkjsnajmkk page 10006 Country house in Belton near Grantham, Lincolnshire, England Belton House, south front Belton House is a Grade I listed country house in the parish of Belton near Grantham in Lincolnshire, England, built between 1685 and 1687 by Sir John Brownlow, 3rd Baronet. It is surrounded by formal gardens and a series of avenues leading to follies within a larger wooded park. Belton has been described as a compilation of all that is finest of Carolean architecture, said to be the only truly vernacular style of architecture that England had produced since the Tudor period. It is considered to be a complete example of a typical English country house; the claim has even been made that Belton's principal façade was the inspiration for the modern British motorway signs which give directions to stately homes. For about three centuries until 1984, Belton House was the seat of the Brownlow family, which had first acquired land in the area in the late 16th century. Their heirs, the Cust family, were created Baron Brownlow in 1776. Despite his great wealth Sir John Brownlow, 3rd Baronet, chose to build a comparatively modest house rather than one of the grand Baroque palaces being built by others at the time. The contemporary, if provincial, Carolean style was the selected choice of design. Nevertheless, the new house was fitted with the latest innovations, such as sash windows for the principal rooms, and followed the latest thinking on house-planning, in seeking to separate those parts of the building that were for the use of the family from the areas where servants carried out their domestic duties. Successive generations made changes to the interior of the house which reflected their changing social position and tastes, yet the fabric and design of the house changed little. In August 1914, Belton House and its park were used as the assembly point for the newly-formed 11th (Northern) Division before its deployment in World War I, and in October 1915 it was used as the home depot and training ground of the Machine Gun Corps. During World War II, RAF Belton Park was established in the grounds of the house, as were two RAF Regiment squadrons, by November 1944 1,850 personnel were based at Belton. The Custs, like many previously wealthy English families, were faced with mounting financial problems. The seventh Baron opened the estate to the public. An adventure playground was built in the nearby woods to attract families to the house as a tourist attraction. However, the financial difficulties were too great and in 1984 they donated the house, with most of its contents, to the National Trust. The trust introduced new features and attractions to fund repairs and conservation. Further revenue is raised from the use of the property as a filming location, and from licensing the Marble Hall for civil weddings. It was visited by 340,290 people during 2021. History[edit] Portrait of Alice Brownlow, née Sherard, by John Riley The Brownlow family, a dynasty of lawyers, began buying property in Lincolnshire to augment their income in 1598. Among these properties was the manor of Belton, 2 mi (3.2 km) distant from Grantham. Richard Brownlow, who established the family's wealth, began negotiations to acquire the manor from Sir Henry Pakenham in 1603 and secured its reversion to him six years later. The Pakenhams hosted King James I in the manor for a night in 1617. This occasion financially ruined the Pakenhams and led to the resignation of their interest in the property to Brownlow in exchange for a lifelong annuity.[1][a] Brownlow neither much stayed at nor made much change to the Belton manor, preferring to reside at other properties. When he died, Brownlow was succeeded by his son Sir John Brownlow I, who himself died childless in 1679. John Brownlow had, however, become attached to two of his more distant blood relations: a great-nephew, also called John Brownlow, and a great-niece, Alice Sherard, who married in 1676 when both were aged 16.[3] After inheriting the estates of their great-uncle, Alice and John Brownlow sought to enter London high society. To that end, they bought a town house in the newly fashionable Southampton Square in Bloomsbury and decided to build a new country house at Belton to flaunt their wealth. In 1684 they acquired labourers and materials for the house, hiring brickmakers, bricklayers, and stonemasons, and carefully demolished the old manor, which stood near the present orangery, to recycle its components. The cornerstone of what became Belton House was laid on 23 March 1685 and its exterior was largely completed by the latter half of the following year. The interiors of the house were completed in 1687.[4] Private residence[edit] The Brownlows moved into Belton House in November 1688.[5] On 29 October 1695, they hosted William III, who was reported to have enjoyed his stay so much that he was too hung over to eat any of the food provided on his visit to Lincoln the following day. Two years later, in July 1697, Sir John Brownlow II committed suicide at a relative's residence in Dorset. Ownership of Belton House passed to his brother, William, who was content to permit Alice to remain in occupation until her death in 1721, and she spent that time arranging advantageous marriages for her five daughters. One of those marriages was between her youngest daughter, Eleanor, and Sir John Brownlow III, William's son. John III, made Viscount Tyrconnel in 1718, inherited Belton House on Alice's death and refurnished the house.[6] Adelaide, wife of the 3rd Earl Brownlow, in a portrait by Frederick Leighton Sir John Brownlow III also died childless in 1754, and like Sir John Brownlow I focused his energies on a nephew, also named John, son of his sister Anne and Sir Richard Cust.[7] The Cust family had family ties to the slave trade.[8][b] They moved into a house in Grantham and received the Viscount Tyrconnel's patronage. Upon John III's death, Anne inherited Belton House and lived in it until 1766, when she gave it to John Cust—elected MP for Grantham in 1743 and then Speaker of the House of Commons from 1761 to 1770—to provide him a residence befitting his political station.[7] Cust died in 1770, because of the "unusual fatigues" of his office, according to his monument at Belton, and Belton passed to his son, Brownlow Cust, who was created Baron Brownlow in 1776.[11] Brownlow Cust made sweeping changes to Belton House. First, from 1770 to 1771, he arranged for repairs to its interiors and then hired architects James Wyatt and John Langworth to modernise the house over the rest of the century. In 1807, Brownlow Cust died and was succeeded by his son, John, created Earl Brownlow in 1815.[12] The earl also made changes to Belton House and its grounds, employing Jeffry Wyatville, James Wyatt's nephew, from 1809 to 1820 and Anthony Salvin in the 1830s.[13][14] On his death in 1853 he was succeeded by a grandson, who himself died in 1867 leaving Belton House, and the manor and estate of Ashridge in Hertfordshire, inherited in 1849 by the 1st Earl's oldest son, John Egerton, Viscount Alford, to another grandson, Adelbert Brownlow-Cust, 3rd Earl Brownlow.[15][16] Although the 3rd Earl preferred to live at Ashridge or at Carlton House Terrace in London, he spent the rest of the 19th century reverting Belton House to its 17th-century appearance. The house entered the 20th century in a good state of repair and preservation, but that century was to present Belton and its estate with serious problems. In January 1921, the 3rd Earl died childless. As a consequence, his title became extinct and his estates were inherited by Adelbert Salusbury Cockayne-Cust, 5th Baron Brownlow. The diminishing value of the family's land and death duties for the 3rd Earl obliged the 5th Baron to sell Ashridge and its art collections.[17] Further death duties were incurred on Adelbert's death in 1927,[18] who passed the house to his son, Peregrine.[19] The 6th Lord Brownlow was involved in the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII as his Lord-in-waiting.[19][20] Edward VIII, who became the Duke of Windsor after the abdication, visited Belton in the 1930s with his mistress Wallis Simpson, whom Brownlow tried in vain to persuade to stay at Belton House in the course of the crisis.[19] Belton House and the World Wars[edit] Belton Park held temporary encampments for the training of British Army units for many years before the start of World War I, but had never held any permanent facilities.[21] At the beginning of the war, like many other British landowners, the 3rd Earl Brownlow offered the house and grounds of Belton and Ashridge to the Government for war service. The offer was accepted and in August 1914, Belton House and its park were used as the assembly point for the newly-formed 11th (Northern) Division before its deployment. A small town was erected on the Belton estate for the soldiers by April 1915 and included such amenities as a YMCA, a cinema and its own railway line.[22] In October 1915, the home depot and training ground of the Machine Gun Corps were established in the southern part of Belton park.[22][23] By 1922, the camp had closed and all the military buildings had been demolished.[23] An archaeological dig at the site was undertaken by the Time Team in 2012.[24] The years following World War I were severely testing for the owners of many great estates. Both indoor and outdoor staff had previously been plentiful, essential, and cheap, but were now in short supply. Millions of men had left private service to join the army, and very few returned.[25] Female domestic staff had been called up for war service in factories, and now realised there was an easier and better paid existence outside the great country houses.[26] Belton again saw war service during World War II. In March 1942 the depot for the RAF Regiment was established at the park as RAF Belton Park. It was housed in Nissen huts.[27][28] Alongside the depot, Belton Park also held the RAF contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Belton_House responseCode 3 200 