nezifasiasucogfsroucxewahsfmqmbobqpqeonm length 6 227195 page 10008 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 30 June 2019 00:00, 30 June 2019 (UTC) Guangdong International Building ... that Rong Baisheng designed the Guangdong International Building (pictured), which became China's tallest building when completed in 1990? ... that in Andy Warhol's Ten Portraits of Jews of the Twentieth Century, the "faces of the dead appear as if behind a veneer of modernity" according to the National Portrait Gallery? ... that al-Muhallab ibn Abi Sufra is credited with introducing iron stirrups to the warhorses of early Muslim armies? ... that Sarah Smarsh's 2018 memoir Heartland argues that belief in the American Dream leads to the continued oppression of those in poverty? ... that sports journalist Jack Gatecliff was inducted into both the Canadian Lacrosse and Buffalo Sabres Halls of Fame? ... that Faith of Our Fathers, a collection of Catholic hymns which became one of Ireland's best-selling albums, was the brainchild of an insurance broker with no experience in the music industry? ... that Birjis Qadr, the Nawab (leader) of Awadh state in northern India, became a poet while in exile in Nepal? ... that Hells Bells grow underwater in a cave in Mexico? 29 June 2019 00:00, 29 June 2019 (UTC) Sylvia Geszty as Cleopatra ... that the Hungarian coloratura soprano Sylvia Geszty (pictured) was a member of the Berlin State Opera in East Germany before joining the Stuttgart State Opera in the West? ... that ten years ago today, the United States played in the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup Final after ending Spain's 35-match unbeaten streak? ... that Swedish entomologist Carl H. Lindroth suggested that more than 40 species of North American ground beetle were inadvertently transported from Europe in ship ballast? ... that NASA Astronaut Group 4, selected in 1965 for the Apollo program, was the first recruited primarily on the basis of scientific experience? ... that voice actress Karin Takahashi originally aspired to become a lawyer? ... that in Ancestors: The Humankind Odyssey, players control a lineage of apes until it reaches a stage that resembles Lucy? ... that Kyle Garlick set the single-season home run record for the Cal Poly Pomona Broncos? ... that the sea hedgehog is a cannibal? 28 June 2019 00:00, 28 June 2019 (UTC) Trinity plantation and aqueduct ... that an aqueduct (pictured) of over 1 mi (1.6 km) in length was built to supply Trinity plantation in Jamaica with water? ... that Hu Jinqing's animated film The Fight Between the Snipe and the Clam, based on a Chinese proverb, won a Silver Bear in Berlin? ... that the ripe seed pods of Brachystegia eurycoma burst explosively and throw out the large disc-shaped seeds? ... that a Mexican mayor warned that the murder of suspected drug lord Rolando López Salinas would increase drug violence in his city? ... that the 15th-century Short English Chronicle described King Edward IV as receiving instantaneous notification of treason from God? ... that motorsport official Silvia Bellot was part of the first all-woman panel of stewards in the history of the World Rally Championship at the 2016 Rally Catalunya? ... that Meghan Trainor's song "All the Ways" was inspired by a conversation she had with her husband Daryl Sabara? ... that a podcast helped overturn the murder conviction of Kaj Linna after he had been imprisoned for thirteen years? 27 June 2019 00:00, 27 June 2019 (UTC) Ranbir Singh ... that Jammu and Kashmir has a unique penal code established by Maharaja Ranbir Singh (pictured)? ... that in 1979, the RISE project first discovered hydrothermal vents known as 'black smokers', on a mid-ocean ridge in the Pacific Ocean? ... that the tenor Alfred Vökt, who performed in the premiere of Henze's Il re cervo, had a Doctor of Law degree? ... that the 37 civilians beheaded by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in April 2019 included at least three who were minors at the time of their arrest? ... that Mario Pouliot is the only ice hockey coach to win consecutive Memorial Cups with different teams? ... that the Buddha, to whom many miracles were attributed, considered the "miracle of instruction" to be the greatest because it would not be taken for a mere magic trick? ... that reproductive immunologist Anne Croy was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada for her work with uterine natural killer cells during pregnancy? ... that right-wing political figures in the United Kingdom have recently been milkshaked? 26 June 2019 00:00, 26 June 2019 (UTC) Lion of Menecrates ... that the Lion of Menecrates (pictured) is thought to have been part of the Tomb of Menecrates in Corfu, Greece, built for an ancient Korkyrean ambassador who was lost at sea? ... that publisher Ping Hsin-tao launched the careers of two of Taiwan's most popular writers, one of whom became his wife? ... that cut branches of the small tree Erythrina berteroana are used to make living fence posts? ... that when the state of Oregon created Deschutes County in 1916, Harvey H. DeArmond was appointed as the county's first district attorney? ... that after Christian bakers refused to decorate a cake in support of gay marriage, the UK Supreme Court ruled that no one could be forced to promote a message with which they disagree? ... that Peter Hirsch conducted the premiere of the revised and complete version of Luigi Nono's Prometeo at La Scala in 1985? ... that the card game of Pollack is named after a bonus for holding the three top cards – the ten, nine, and ace – of one suit? ... that Monique Scheier-Schneider, general secretary of the Luxembourg Ice Hockey Federation since 1992, has managed her country's men's under-18, men's junior, and men's national ice hockey teams? 25 June 2019 00:00, 25 June 2019 (UTC) Edith Campbell ... that Canadian nurse Edith Campbell (pictured) was awarded the Military Medal for her bravery during air raids on a First World War hospital in France? ... that in 2013 Libro de los Epítomes, a library catalogue by Ferdinand Columbus, was rediscovered after nearly 500 years? ... that Diane Holl was the first female race engineer to win a Championship Auto Racing Teams motor race? ... that theatre in Saarbrücken began as court theatre directed by Iffland, while plans for today's State Theatre were commissioned by Goebbels? ... that Caliph Abd al-Malik's scribe Sulayman ibn Sa'd al-Khushani changed the language of Syria's bureaucracy from Greek to Arabic? ... that among the varied wildlife of Greece are more than 5,000 species of vascular plant and about 450 species of bird? ... that flumezapine was at the center of a lawsuit filed by Eli Lilly and Company against generic manufacturers who sought to void its patent on the antipsychotic Zyprexa? ... that Canadian journalist Katherine Hughes became Alberta's first provincial archivist, but later became a political activist, fighting for Irish self-determination? ... that lines on sports fields were once marked by young children but can now be marked by robots equipped with GPS? 24 June 2019 00:00, 24 June 2019 (UTC) Sher Mandal ... that Mughal emperor Humayun died after falling down the stairs of his library, Sher Mandal (pictured)? ... that French sinologist Claude Cadart and his wife Cheng Yingxiang published the memoirs of her father Peng Shuzhi, a Trotskyist leader expelled from the Communist Party of China? ... that both Mueller and Barr can be found in Lincoln, Nebraska? ... that Sandy Schreier's clothing collection includes three Valentino outfits owned by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis? ... that the 1826 Canary Islands storm claimed 298 victims  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 70 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2019/June responseCode 3 200 