ngscemfgfqkgoenodcucyobsymbemaxkmqocbijo length 5 96580 page 7772 Not to be confused with Ngee Ann Polytechnic. This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (September 2022) (template removal help) Shopping mall in Singapore Ngee Ann City Exterior view of Ngee Ann City Location Singapore Coordinates 1°18′10″N 103°50′4″E﻿ / ﻿1.30278°N 103.83444°E﻿ / 1.30278; 103.83444 Address 391 Orchard Road, Singapore 238872 Opening date 21 September 1993; 30 years ago (1993-09-21) Developer Ngee Ann Development Orchard Square Development Management Ngee Ann Property Management Owner Ngee Ann Development Pte Ltd & YTL Starhill Global Property Management Architect Raymond Woo and Associates No. of stores and services 130 No. of anchor tenants 3 (Takashimaya, Kinokuniya & Best Denki) Total retail floor area 1,188,900 square feet (110,450 m2) No. of floors 29 (7 retail floors (B2 to L5), 3 parking floors (B3, L6 and L7), 19 office floors (L8 to L26)) Public transit access NS23 Somerset NS22 TE14 Orchard Website ngeeanncity.com.sg Ngee Ann City is a shopping and commercial centre located on Orchard Road, Singapore. The S$520 million building was officially opened on 21 September 1993 by then-Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong. Ngee Ann City currently houses the High Commission of New Zealand, on the 15th floor of Tower A. History[edit] In the 1950s, the land that Ngee Ann City sits on was a burial ground, owned and managed by Ngee Ann Kongsi. It was part of a parcel of land known as Tai Shan Ting, which was bounded by Orchard Road, Paterson Road, and Grange Road. A ten-storey Ngee Ann Building was then built on the site, and was demolished to make way for Ngee Ann City.[1] Redevelopment of the site was first considered as early as 1967. Ngee Ann City was planned by Ngee Ann Development and the Orchard Square Development Corporation in the late 1980s. Raymond Woo, the architect who designed the complex, drew inspiration from the Great Wall of China. The intent was to reflect the dignity, solidity and strength of the Ngee Ann Kongsi. Wong spent five years designing and overseeing the project. Work on Ngee Ann City began 22 years after the project was first proposed. The construction of the S$520 million complex took four years. Ngee Ann City was officially opened by Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong on 21 September 1993. Facilities[edit] Atrium of Ngee Ann City in 2010 Fountain at Ngee Ann City Takashimaya Square at Basement 2 of Ngee Ann City Food Village at Basement Ngee Ann City shops Ngee Ann City has two office towers, Tower A and B which are both 26 storeys high. Among its many shops are the Takashimaya department store and Kinokuniya, the second-largest bookstore in Southeast Asia. Until 2007, it housed the library@orchard, part of the National Library Board on the 5th floor. Ngee Ann City is also home to the largest Best Denki in Singapore, known as Big Best. In 2005, the shopping mall opened an art and creativity section on the 4th floor called iFORUM, the first of its kind in Singapore. When Ngee Ann City opened in 1993, Tangs Studio (a division of Tangs) occupied three floors of the building at the Tower B section of the building. A few years later, Level 2 of the department store was closed in 1999 due to poor business. This part of the mall became part of the speciality shop section (mainly branded boutiques) on the mall on Level 2, Books Kinokuniya on Level 3, and a shop section mainly children's boutiques and shops on Level 4 that was converted to iForum in 2005. The top floor of the mall, Level 5, was part of the upper level carpark. In 1997, the 5th floor was converted to retail space. The Civic Plaza is where roadshows, concerts, functions, performances and activities are held. There is a fountain at the front of the Civic Plaza facing Orchard Road. The building is connected by underpasses to Wisma Atria, ION Orchard, Wheelock Place, Isetan and Lucky Plaza. The two towers of Ngee Ann City were intended by the designer to symbolise Chinese door gods, representing strength, generosity, and unity. Tenants in the office tower include Takashimaya Singapore, Books Kinokuniya, Metro department store, Ngee Ann Development, some private office tenants and a medical floor on Level 8 of Tower B. Toshin Development Singapore Pte. Ltd. manages the speciality stores area of Takashimaya Shopping Centre located from basement 2 to level 4 of Ngee Ann City, covering over 370,000 square feet. References[edit] ^ Elysa Chen (18 July 2007). "It was to look like Great Wall of China". The New Paper. "Ngee Ann City comes alive", The Straits Times, 7 August 1993 Tan Sung, "Takashimaya ready to face sluggish sector", The Straits Times, 6 August 1993 External links[edit] Takashimaya Department Store Takashimaya Shopping Centre Ngee Ann City Wikimedia Commons has media related to Ngee Ann City. v t e Shopping centres in Singapore Dedicated 100 AM 600 @ Toa Payoh Anchorpoint Beauty World Centre Beauty World Plaza Causeway Point Century Square Change Alley City Square Mall City Vibe CityLink Mall Eastpoint Mall ERA APAC Centre FairPrice Hub Forum The Shopping Mall Fu Lu Shou Complex Holland Road Shopping Centre Holland Piazza Hougang 1 Hougang Mall IMM Jem KINEX Leisure Park Kallang Lot One Marina Bay Link Mall Mustafa Centre myVillage @ Serangoon Nex Orchard Central Plaza Singapura Queensway Shopping Centre The Rail Mall Rivervale Mall Rochester Mall Seletar Mall Sembawang Shopping Centre Sim Lim Square Sim Lim Tower The Centrepoint The Majestic The Star Vista Tampines 1 Tampines Mall Tekka Centre Thomson Plaza Upper Serangoon Shopping Centre VivoCity West Mall White Sands Wisma Geylang Serai Yew Tee Point Incorporated 313@Somerset AMK Hub Alexandra Retail Centre Bedok Mall Bugis Junction Bugis+ Bukit Panjang Plaza Capitol Singapore Changi City Point Chinatown Point Clarke Quay Central Claymore Connect Clementi Mall Compass One Djitsun Mall Bedok Djitsun Mall Esplanade Mall Far East Plaza Funan Golden Mile Complex Great World HarbourFront Centre Hillion Mall i12 Katong ION Orchard International Plaza Jewel Changi Airport Junction 8 Junction 10 Junction Nine Jurong Point Kallang Wave Mall Katong Shopping Centre Lucky Plaza Mandarin Gallery The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands Marina Square Millenia Walk Ngee Ann City Northpoint City Novena Square One Raffles Place Orchard Gateway Orchard Towers PLQ Mall Palais Renaissance Parkway Parade Paya Lebar Square Peninsula Plaza People's Park Centre People's Park Complex Raffles City Sengkang Grand Mall Shaw House and Centre SingPost Centre South Beach Square 2 Sun Plaza Suntec City Mall Tang Plaza Tekka Place The Paragon The Woodleigh Mall Tiong Bahru Plaza United Square Valley Point Waterway Point West Coast Plaza Westgate Wheelock Place Wisma Atria Wisteria Mall HDB 888 Plaza Admiralty Place Buangkok Square Canberra Plaza Dawson Place Depot Heights Shopping Centre Elias Mall Fajar Shopping Centre Gek Poh Shopping Centre Greenridge Shopping Centre Heartland Mall HDB Hub Hougang Rivercourt Limbang Shopping Centre Loyang Point Northshore Plaza Oasis Terraces Our Tampines Hub Pasir Ris West Plaza Pioneer Mall Punggol Plaza Rivervale Plaza Sunshine Place Taman Jurong Shopping Centre Tampines Mart Vista Point Woodlands Mart Woodlands North Plaza Yew Tee Square Multiplexes 321 Clementi Cathay Cineleisure Orchard GV Yishun The Cathay Demolished Amber Mansions Bedok Point Capitol Centre Ellenborough Market Fernvale Point Fitzpatrick's Funan DigitaLife Mall JCube Jurong Entertainment Centre Liang Court Park Mall Scotts Shopping Centre Serangoon Plaza Shaw Tower Specialists' Shopping Centre The Verge Under construction iMall (2023) Pasir Ris Mall (2025) contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Ngee_Ann_City responseCode 3 200 