nimkuitmwggkcojsccjgkcbsrotacixgccnsaehm length 6 225338 page 10008 Wikipedia policy on verifiability of information "WP:V" redirects here. To discuss particular sources, see the reliable sources noticeboard. For vandalism, see Wikipedia:Vandalism. This page documents an English Wikipedia policy. It describes a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus. Shortcuts WP:V WP:VER WP:VERIFY This page in a nutshell: Readers must be able to check that any of the information within Wikipedia articles is not just made up. This means all material must be attributable to reliable, published sources. Additionally, quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged must be supported by inline citations. Content policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Article titles Biographies of living persons Image use policy What Wikipedia is not v t e Short URL w.wiki/FVY In the English Wikipedia, verifiability means other people using the encyclopedia can check that the information comes from a reliable source. Its content is determined by previously published information rather than editors' beliefs, opinions, experiences, or unpublished original research. Even if you are sure something is true, it must have been previously published in a reliable source before you can add it.[a] If reliable sources disagree with each other, then maintain a neutral point of view and present what the various sources say, giving each side its due weight. All material in Wikipedia mainspace, including everything in articles, lists, and captions, must be verifiable. All quotations, and any material whose verifiability has been challenged or is likely to be challenged, must include an inline citation to a reliable source that directly supports[b] the material. Any material that needs an inline citation but does not have one may be removed. Please immediately remove contentious material about living people that is unsourced or poorly sourced. For how to write citations, see citing sources. Verifiability, no original research, and neutral point of view are Wikipedia's core content policies. They work together to determine content, so editors should understand the key points of all three. Articles must also comply with the copyright policy. Responsibility for providing citations Shortcuts WP:BURDEN WP:PROVEIT WP:CHALLENGE "WP:PROVEIT" redirects here. For the editing tool, see Wikipedia:ProveIt. "WP:CHALLENGE" redirects here. For challenging closes, see Wikipedia:Closing discussions § Challenging a closing. See also: Wikipedia:Editing policy § Try to fix problems All content must be verifiable. The burden to demonstrate verifiability lies with the editor who adds or restores material, and it is satisfied by providing an inline citation to a reliable source that directly supports[b] the contribution.[c] Using inline citations, provide reliable, published sources for: all quotations all material whose verifiability has been challenged all material that is likely to be challenged all contentious matter about living and recently deceased persons. The cited source must clearly support the material as presented in the article. Cite the source clearly, ideally giving page number(s)—though sometimes a section, chapter, or other division may be appropriate instead; see Wikipedia:Citing sources for details of how to do this. Any material lacking an inline citation to a reliable source that directly supports[b] the material may be removed and should not be restored without an inline citation to a reliable source. Whether and how quickly material should be initially removed for not having an inline citation to a reliable source depends on the material and the overall state of the article. In some cases, editors may object if you remove material without giving them time to provide references. Consider adding a citation needed tag as an interim step.[d] When tagging or removing material for lacking an inline citation, please state your concern that it may not be possible to find a published reliable source, and the material therefore may not be verifiable.[e] If you think the material is verifiable, you are encouraged to provide an inline citation yourself before considering whether to remove or tag it. Do not leave unsourced or poorly sourced material in an article if it might damage the reputation of living people[1] or existing groups, and do not move it to the talk page. You should also be aware of how Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons also applies to groups. Reliable sources Shortcuts WP:SOURCE WP:SOURCES "WP:SOURCE" redirects here. For how to reference sources, see Help:Referencing for beginners. For the <syntaxhighlight> tag (previously the <source> tag), see Help:Wikitext § syntaxhighlight. What counts as a reliable source Further information: Wikipedia:Reliable sources A cited source on Wikipedia is often a specific portion of text (such as a short article or a page in a book). But when editors discuss sources (for example, to debate their appropriateness or reliability) the word source has four related meanings: The work itself (the article, book: "That book looks like a useful source for this article.") and works like it ("An obituary can be a useful biographical source", "A recent source is better than an old one") The creator of the work (the writer, journalist: "What do we know about that source's reputation?") and people like them ("A medical researcher is a better source than a journalist for.."). The publication (for example, the newspaper, journal, magazine: "That source covers the arts.") and publications like them ("A newspaper is not a reliable source for medical facts"). The publisher of the work (for example, Cambridge University Press: "That source publishes reference works.") and publishers like them ("An academic publisher is a good source of reference works"). All four can affect reliability. Base articles on reliable, independent, published sources with a reputation for fact-checking and accuracy. Source material must have been published, the definition of which for the purposes of Wikipedia is made available to the public in some form.[f] Unpublished materials are not considered reliable. Use sources that directly support the material presented in an article and are appropriate to the claims made. The appropriateness of any source depends on the context. Be especially careful when sourcing content related to living people or medicine. If available, academic and peer-reviewed publications are usually the most reliable sources on topics such as history, medicine, and science. Editors may also use material from reliable non-academic sources, particularly if it appears in respected mainstream publications. Other reliable sources include: University-level textbooks Books published by respected publishing houses Mainstream (non-fringe) magazines, including specialty ones Reputable newspapers Editors may also use electronic media, subject to the same criteria (see details in Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources and Wikipedia:Search engine test). Best sources The best sources have a professional structure for checking or analyzing facts, legal issues, evidence, and arguments. The greater the degree of scrutiny given to these issues, the more reliable the source. Newspaper and magazine blogs Shortcut WP:NEWSBLOG Some newspapers, magazines, and other news organizations host online columns they call blogs. These may be acceptable sources if the writers are professionals, but use them with caution because blogs may not be subject to the news organization's normal fact-checking process.[g] If a news organization publishes an opinion piece in a blog, attribute the statement to the writer, e.g. "Jane Smith wrote ..." Never use the blog comments that are left by the readers as sources. For personal or group blogs that are not reliable sources, see § Self-published sources below. Reliable sources noticeboard and guideline Further information: Wikipedia:Reliable sources and Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Noticeboard To discuss the reliability of a specific source for a particular statement, consult Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Noticeboard, which seeks to apply this policy to particular cases. For a guideline discussing the reliability of particular types of sources, see Wikipedia:Reliable sources. In the case of inconsistency between this policy and the Wikipedia:Reliable sources guideline, or any other guideline related to sourcing, this policy has priority. Sources that are usually not reliable "WP:NOTRELIABLE" redirects here. For Wikipedia's own reliability, see Wikipedia:Wikipedia is not a reliable source. See also: Wikipedia:Reliable sources § Questionable and self-published sources, and Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Perennial sources Shortcuts WP:NOTRELIABLE WP:NOTRS WP:QS Questionable sources Questionable sources are those that have a poor reputation for checking the facts, lack meaningful editorial oversight, or have an apparent conflict of interest. Such sources include websites and publications expressing views widely considered by other sources to be promotional, extremist, or relying heavily on unsubstantiated gossip, rumor, or personal opinion. Questionable sources should be used only as sources for material on themselves, such as in articles about themselves; see below. They are not suitable sources for contentious claims about others. Predatory open access journals are considered questionable due to the absence of quality control in the peer-review process. Self-published sources Shortcuts WP:SPS WP:SELFPUB WP:SELFPUBLISH WP:BLOGS WP:EXPERTSPS Further information: Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons § Avoid self-published sources, Wikipedia:List of self-publishing companies, and Wikipedia:Identifying and using self-published works Anyone can create a personal web page, self-publish a book, or claim to be an expert. That is why self-published material such as books, patents, newsletters, personal websites contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:CIRCULAR responseCode 3 200 