nmsoeqykrcnmqivgzgzmzgpgzqakpgkevonkkeli length 5 78729 page 3797 Composition for piano by Franz Liszt This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Grand galop chromatique" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2009) (template removal help) Grand galop chromatique in E-flat major, S.219 is a bravura piece by Franz Liszt, composed in 1838. This galop was one of Liszt's favorite encores which he considered a "rouser".[1] The galop chromatique was published as a piano solo and also in a version for piano duet (S.616). Among 20th century pianists, György Cziffra notably attained enormous audience success with this piece. The galop features various technical difficulties, one of the most significant being the sixteenth-note jumps played by the right hand in bars 85 through 92, 157 through 164, and 173 through 180. Similar to the jumps studied in Liszt's étude "La campanella" but typically played far more rapidly, these jumps reach intervals of thirteen steps (two and a half octaves) at their largest. Other technical difficulties include rapid chromatic scales played by the third, fourth, and fifth fingers, and sixteenth-note jumps in the left hand. External links[edit] Grand galop chromatique: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project Notes[edit] ^ Gibbs, Christopher H.; Gooley, Dana (2010-08-29). Franz Liszt and His World. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-1400828616. v t e Franz Liszt List of compositions Music Musical works Late works Transcriptions Lisztomania Operas Don Sanche Sardanapalo Choral works The Bells of the Strasbourg Cathedral Slavimo slavno, Slaveni! Via crucis Les quatre élémens Symphonic poems Ce qu'on entend sur la montagne Tasso: lamento e trionfo Les préludes Orpheus Prometheus Mazeppa Festklänge Héroïde funèbre Hungaria Hamlet Hunnenschlacht Die Ideale Other orchestral works Faust Symphony Dante Symphony Mephisto Waltzes Piano and orchestra Hungarian Fantasy Piano Concerto No. 1 Piano Concerto No. 2 Piano Concerto No. 3 Totentanz Solo piano Transcendental Études Grandes études de Paganini Morceau de salon, Ab Irato Three Concert Études Two Concert Études Variation on a Waltz by Diabelli Années de pèlerinage Dante Sonata Feuilles d'album Ballade No. 1 Ballade No. 2 Consolations Harmonies poétiques et religieuses Deux légendes Sonata in B minor Sarabande and Chaconne Weihnachtsbaum "Dem Andenken Petőfis" "Nuages gris" "La lugubre gondola" "Valse-Impromptu" Mephisto Waltzes "Bagatelle sans tonalité" "Mephisto Polka" "Grand galop chromatique" Csárdás Hungarian Rhapsodies Glanes de Woronince "Rondeau fantastique" Rhapsodie espagnole Liebesträume Opera paraphrases Réminiscences de Don Juan Fantasy on Themes from Mozart's Figaro and Don Giovanni Family Adam Liszt (father) Cosima Wagner (daughter) Pupils Carl Baermann Arthur H. Bird Hans Bronsart von Schellendorff Hans von Bülow Eugen d'Albert Arthur De Greef Élie-Miriam Delaborde Amy Fay Arthur Friedheim Karl Klindworth Martin Krause Carl Lachmund Frederic Lamond Georg Liebling Max Liebling Heinrich Lutter Sophie Menter Sebastian Bach Mills José Vianna da Motta Dionys Pruckner Laura Rappoldi Carl Reinecke Martha Remmert Eduard Reuss Moriz Rosenthal Emil von Sauer Giovanni Sgambati William Hall Sherwood Alexander Siloti Agnes Street-Klindworth Karl Tausig István Thomán Anton Urspruch Bettina Walker Józef Wieniawski Géza Zichy Related Liszthaus Raiding (Liszt's birthplace) Franz Liszt Academy of Music International Franz Liszt Piano Competition Franz Liszt International Piano Competition (Budapest) Lisztomania (1975 film) Lisztomania (song) University of Music Franz Liszt Weimar Category Audio Portal: Classical Music contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Grand_galop_chromatique responseCode 3 200 