nonsykdikimmdioiggkclkvedobexecajmrajofe length 6 120825 page 8476 Species of turtle Myanmar brown leaf turtle Conservation status Least Concern (IUCN 3.1)[1] CITES Appendix II (CITES)[2] Scientific classification Domain: Eukaryota Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genus: Cyclemys Species: C. fusca Binomial name Cyclemys fusca Fritz, Guicking, Auer, Sommer, Wink & Hundsdörfer, 2008 Cyclemys fusca range map The Myanmar brown leaf turtle (Cyclemys fusca) is a species of Asian leaf turtle found in Myanmar.[1][3][4] Description[edit] Its carapace is dark brown, ovoid, and lacks patterns in adults. The plastron is dark brown to black with or without dense, black, radiating lines. The head is greenish yellow. The throat and neck are uniformly dark. The bridge is dark brown to black.[5][6] Distribution[edit] Myanmar brown leaf turtle is widespread in Myanmar,[1] and perhaps occurs in adjacent India and Bangladesh.[4] See also[edit] Cyclemys References[edit] ^ a b c Platt, K.; Praschag, P.; Horne, B.D. (2021). "Cyclemys fusca". IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 2021: e.T170506A1315427. doi:10.2305/IUCN.UK.2021-1.RLTS.T170506A1315427.en. Retrieved 28 May 2022. ^ "Appendices | CITES". cites.org. Retrieved 2022-01-14. ^ Turtle Taxonomy Working Group (Rhodin, A.G.J., van Dijk, P.P, Iverson, J.B., and Shaffer, H.B.).2010. Turtles of the world, 2010 update: annotated checklist of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution, and conservation status. In: Rhodin, A.G.J., Pritchard, P.C.H., van Dijk, P.P., Saumure, R.A., Buhlmann, K.A., Iverson, J.B., and Mittermeier, R.A. (Eds.). Conservation Biology of Freshwater Turtles and Tortoises: A Compilation Project of the IUCN/SSC Tortoise and Freshwater Turtle Specialist Group. Chelonian Research Monographs No. 5. pp. 000.85-000.164, doi:10.3854/crm.5.000.checklist.v3.2010 ^ a b Cyclemys fusca at the Reptarium.cz Reptile Database. Accessed 28 May 2022. ^ Fritz, U.; Guicking, D.; Auer, M.; Sommer, R. S.; Wink, M. & Hundsdrfer, A. K. (2008). "Diversity of the Southeast Asian leaf turtle genus Cyclemys: how many leaves on its tree of life?" (PDF). Zoologica Scripta. 37 (4): 367–390. doi:10.1111/j.1463-6409.2008.00332.x. ^ Praschag, Peter; Hundsdörfer, Anna K. & Fritz, Uwe (2009). "Further specimens and phylogenetic position of the recently described leaf turtle species Cyclemys gemeli (Testudines: Geoemydidae)" (PDF). Zootaxa. 29 (37): 29–37. Retrieved March 29, 2011. v t e Family Geoemydidae Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder: Cryptodira Superfamily: Testudinoidea Family: Geoemydidae Genera Species of the family Geoemydidae †Banhxeochelys †Banhxeochelys trani Batagur Burmese roofed turtle Northern river terrapin Painted terrapin Red-crowned roofed turtle Southern river terrapin Three-striped roofed turtle Cuora Amboina box turtle Bourret's box turtle Indochinese box turtle McCord's box turtle Keeled box turtle Pan's box turtle Southern Vietnamese box turtle Golden coin turtle Vietnamese three-striped box turtle Yellow-headed box turtle Chinese box turtle Yunnan box turtle Zhou's box turtle Cyclemys Asian leaf turtle Assam leaf turtle Eastern black-bridged leaf turtle Enigmatic leaf turtle Myanmar brown leaf turtle Oldham's leaf turtle Western black-bridged leaf turtle †Echmatemys †Echmatemys septaria †Echmatemys stevensoniana †Echmatemys wyomingensis Geoclemys Black pond turtle Geoemyda Black-breasted leaf turtle Ryukyu black-breasted leaf turtle Hardella Brahminy river turtle Heosemys Arakan forest turtle Giant Asian pond turtle Spiny turtle Yellow-headed temple turtle Leucocephalon Sulawesi forest turtle Malayemys Malayan snail-eating turtle Mekong snail-eating turtle Khorat snail-eating turtle Mauremys Balkan pond turtle Caspian turtle Chinese pond turtle Chinese stripe-necked turtle Japanese pond turtle Red-necked pond turtle Spanish pond turtle Vietnamese pond turtle Yellow pond turtle Melanochelys Indian black turtle Tricarinate hill turtle Morenia Burmese eyed turtle Indian eyed turtle Notochelys Malayan flat-shelled turtle Orlitia Malaysian giant turtle Pangshura Assam roofed turtle Brown roofed turtle Indian roofed turtle Indian tent turtle †Pangshura tatrotia Rhinoclemmys Black wood turtle Brown wood turtle Colombian wood turtle Furrowed wood turtle Large-nosed wood turtle Maracaibo wood turtle Mexican spotted wood turtle Painted wood turtle Spot-legged wood turtle †Rhinoclemmys panamaensis Sacalia Beale's eyed turtle Four-eyed turtle Siebenrockiella Black marsh turtle Philippine forest turtle Vijayachelys Cane turtle Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on turtles of the world 2017 update: Annotated checklist and atlas of taxonomy, synonymy, distribution, and conservation status. †=Extinct. v t e Testudines Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Reptilia Subclass: Anapsida Order: Testudines Suborder Superfamily Family Genus Cryptodira Chelonioidea (Sea turtles) Cheloniidae †Allopleuron Caretta †Carolinochelys Chelonia †Eochelone Eretmochelys †Gigantatypus †Glarichelys †Itilochelys Lepidochelys †Mexichelys †Miocaretta Natator †Pacifichelys †Syllomus †Tasbacka Dermochelyidae †Arabemys †Bouliachelys †Corsochelys †Cosmochelys Dermochelys †Eosphargis †Mesodermochelys †Psephophorus †Euclastes †Peritresius †Procolpochelys †Protosphargis †Puppigerus Kinosternoidea Dermatemydidae Dermatemys Kinosternidae Claudius †Hoplochelys Kinosternon Staurotypus Sternotherus Testudinoidea Emydidae Chrysemys Clemmys Deirochelys Emys Actinemys Emydoidea Glyptemys Graptemys Malaclemys Pseudemys Terrapene Trachemys Geoemydidae Batagur †Banhxeochelys Cuora Cyclemys Geoclemys Geoemyda Hardella Heosemys Leucocephalon Malayemys Mauremys Melanochelys Morenia Notochelys Orlitia Pangshura Rhinoclemmys Sacalia Siebenrockiella Vijayachelys Platysternidae Platysternon Testudinidae Aldabrachelys Astrochelys Centrochelys Chelonoidis Chersina Cylindraspis Geochelone Gopherus †Hadrianus †Hesperotestudo Homopus Indotestudo Kinixys Malacochersus Manouria †Megalochelys Psammobates Pyxis †Solitudo Stigmochelys †Stylemys Testudo Trionychia Carettochelyidae †Allaeochelys †Anosteira Carettochelys Trionychidae Amyda Apalone †Axestemys Chitra Cyclanorbis Cycloderma †Drazinderetes Dogania †Gilmoremys †Hutchemys †Khunnuchelys Lissemys Nilssonia Palea †Palaeoamyda Pelochelys Pelodiscus Rafetus Trionyx †Basilochelys †Sinaspideretes Chelydridae †Acherontemys Chelydra †Chelydrops †Chelydropsis †Emarginachelys †Macrocephalochelys Macrochelys †Planiplastron †Protochelydra †Nanhsiungchelyidae †Anomalochelys †Basilemys †Jiangxichelys †Protostegidae †Alienochelys †Archelon †Atlantochelys †Calcarichelys †Cratochelone †Desmatochelys †Iserosaurus †Notochelone †Ocepechelon †Pneumatoarthrus †Protostega †Rhinochelys †Santanachelys †Terlinguachelys †Adocus †Argillochelys †Bashuchelys †Ctenochelys †Prionochelys †Toxochelys Pleurodira †Araripemydidae †Araripemys †Bothremydidae †Araiochelys †Arenila †Azabbaremys †Bothremys †Cearachelys †Chedighaii †Chupacabrachelys †Eotaphrosphys †Foxemys †Galianemys †Ilatardia †Inaechelys †Itapecuruemys †Jainemys †Kinkonychelys †Kurmademys †Labrostochelys †Nigeremys †Phosphatochelys †Polysternon †Puentemys †Rosasia †Rhothonemys †Sankuchemys †Taphrosphys †Ummulisani †Zolhafah Chelidae Acanthochelys Chelodina Chelus Elseya Elusor Emydura Hydromedusa †Lomalatachelys Mesoclemmys Myuchelys Phrynops Platemys †Prochelidella Pseudemydura Rheodytes Rhinemys †Yaminuechelys Pelomedusidae Pelomedusa Pelusios Podocnemididae †Albertwoodemys †Bauruemys †Brontochelys †Caninemys †Carbonemys †Cerrejonemys †Cordichelys Erymnochelys †Lapparentemys †Latentemys Peltocephalus Podocnemis †Stupendemys †Sahonachelyidae †Sahonachelys †Sokatra †Caribemys †Caririemys †Tacuarembemys Phylogenetic arrangement of turtles based on Turtles of the World 2017 Update: Annotated Checklist and Atlas of Taxonomy, Synonymy, Distribution, and Conservation Status. † = extinct. See also List of Testudines families Taxon identifiers Wikidata: Q3008361 Wikispecies: Cyclemys fusca BOLD: 708120 CoL: 32T69 GBIF: 7972582 iNaturalist: 98828 ITIS: 949153 IUCN: 170506 NCBI: 1138843 RD: fusca Species+: 68349 contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Myanmar_brown_leaf_turtle responseCode 3 200 