novkzcskqavissxmycaebkpcbitsbqjsamygtgeo page 10006 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... Please add the line ==={{subst:CURRENTDAY}} {{subst:CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{subst:CURRENTYEAR}}=== for each new day and the time the set was removed from the DYK template at the top for the newly posted set of archived hooks. This will ensure all times are based on UTC time and accurate. This page should be archived once a month. Thanks. 31 December 2018 00:00, 31 December 2018 (UTC) Analogue model of extension tectonics ... that analogue modelling in geology uses material such as honey, gelatin, sand or clay to simulate crust and mantle? ... that the mantis shrimp Acanthosquilla derijardi has a junior synonym named after Princess Sirindhorn of Thailand in reference to a childen's book she wrote? ... that elderly members of Knesseth Israel Congregation of Birmingham, Alabama, were featured in the 1990 music video for "Minyan Man"? ... that pharmacologist Li Lianda won a national science award for his research on the traditional Chinese medical concept of blood stasis? ... that in 2010, the US Supreme Court heard an original jurisdiction case in which four states sued North Carolina for refusing to return the money they had invested in a failed waste facility? ... that actress Yume Miyamoto voiced Lilo in the Japanese dub of Lilo & Stitch: The Series? ... that the epitaph Known unto God, which appears on more than 212,000 Commonwealth war graves, was selected by the poet Rudyard Kipling, whose own son was killed during the First World War? ... that when golfer Annie Park won her first career LPGA Tour tournament in 2018, she was ranked 236th in the world? 30 December 2018 00:00, 30 December 2018 (UTC) Porsche 911 GT3 R ... that since 1994, Team Taisan (2012 racecar pictured) has won eight team championships and four drivers' championships in the Super GT Series? ... that Windmill Hill Cavern, which provided the first scientifically accepted proof that humans and now-extinct animal species coexisted in Britain, was found accidentally while searching for a lost pickaxe? ... that despite being persecuted as a convert to Judaism in Nazi Germany, Ernst von Manstein was given a full military funeral with uniformed SS pallbearers? ... that after its defeat in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, Pakistan formulated a military doctrine designed to "Bleed India with a Thousand Cuts"? ... that before Zhang Ting became a government minister, he was disabled by injuries suffered during a weapons test? ... that the Amazon basin ranges of the bristly mice Neacomys minutus and Neacomys spinosus overlap? ... that deposits of rock salt are mechanically weak, and may flow under stress? ... that hall of fame barrel racer Wanda Harper Bush rode her horse 3 miles (4.8 km) to catch the bus for school? 29 December 2018 00:00, 29 December 2018 (UTC) Australasian gannet in flight ... that Australasian gannets (example pictured) established a breeding colony on Young Nick's Head after being attracted there by decoy birds and pre-recorded calls? ... that Sakura-Variationen, a trio for saxophone, piano, and percussion by Helmut Lachenmann, was composed for a children's concert? ... that the followers of Abu Sa'id al-Jannabi, the founder of the Qarmatian state in Bahrayn, believed that he would return after his death, and kept a saddled horse at the entrance of his tomb? ... that the Poplar Hill mansion on Long Island was reportedly used to spy on the neighboring Killenworth mansion, which housed the Soviet delegation to the United Nations? ... that Pat Marsh was described as "the first lady of British ice hockey"? ... that the Slovak Jewish Center, set up by the Nazis, was taken over by a resistance group? ... that in 1909 Mamie Garvin Fields became one of the first African-American public school teachers in Charleston County, South Carolina? ... that the ending of Avengers: Infinity War inspired the largest user ban in Reddit's history? 28 December 2018 00:00, 28 December 2018 (UTC) Thai Ministry of Defence ... that the Phaya Tani cannon in front of Thailand's Ministry of Defence headquarters (pictured) was turned around in 2004, in a rumoured attempt to fix bad luck from its pointing at the Grand Palace? ... that Dorothée Munyaneza, who moved to London as a girl because of the Rwandan genocide, has choreographed two works about her experiences? ... that the worms Dipolydora commensalis and Neanthes fucata have a commensal relationship with their hermit crab hosts and are not attacked by them? ... that Mary Jane Odell was inducted into the Iowa Women's Hall of Fame in 1979, the year before her appointment as Secretary of State of Iowa? ... that prior to a Red Cross inspection of Theresienstadt ghetto, a "beautification" program there included the transfer of 7,500 prisoners to Auschwitz? ... that after initially committing to Stanford, David Long agreed to play for Michigan Wolverines football after Michigan head coach Jim Harbaugh climbed a tree on a recruiting visit? ... that the cantata Kündlich groß ist das gottselige Geheimnis was written by Gottfried Heinrich Stölzel for the Third Day of Christmas at the court of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen? ... that a woman once threw a dead cat at James Comyn while he was cross-examining her in court? 27 December 2018 00:00, 27 December 2018 (UTC) Dawn Mabalon ... that professor Dawn Mabalon (pictured) is credited with helping to get Little Manila, Stockton, listed as one of America's Most Endangered Places? ... that the saliva of the common clubhook squid contains a toxin which helps subdue its prey? ... that baseball player Kyle Regnault signed with the New York Mets after meeting one of their coaches on a golf course? ... that an angry artist walked into the SoHo Weekly News offices and chopped off two of his fingers as a "protest"? ... that Z was ordered as France's first diesel-powered submarine, but lost this distinction because Aigrette was launched before her? ... that "Sozusagen grundlos vergnügt" ("Call it causelessly merry") was one of about 40 poems by Mascha Kaléko set to music on a 2011 album? ... that Clare Faulds, the first woman admitted to the Manx bar, later served as the Vicar General of Sodor and Man? ... that Lord Byron was called a "melancholy rat" for writing the Hebrew Melodies? 26 December 2018 00:00, 26 December 2018 (UTC) Pancho Claus in Houston, Texas ... that a "Tex-Mex" version of Santa Claus known as Pancho Claus (example pictured) is popular in parts of the United States? ... that the John Steele House has an unusual floor plan, but does not show it? ... that Lisa Buckwitz and Mariama Jamanka, who were nicknamed the "Berlin Bob", won the two-woman bobsleigh event at the 2018 Winter Olympics? ... that "Cozy Little Christmas" is Katy Perry's second Christmas song after "Every Day Is a Holiday"? ... that Hanifan Yudani Kusumah's hug of Joko Widodo and Prabowo Subianto during the 2018 Asian Games was seen as a gesture of national unity? ... that the Penney-Missouri Awards for women's page journalism were described as the "Pulitzer Prize of feature writing"? ... that the ground plum was used as medicine for horses by the Lakota people? ... that the "Shepherd's Pipe Carol" was reportedly sung by choirs in the Baltic states as a sign of resistance to Soviet control? 25 December 2018 12:00, 25 December 2018 (UTC) Adoration of the Shepherds detail ... that the Adoration of the Shepherds (detail pictured) by Giovanni Cariani seems to have been started as a Rest on the Flight into Egypt before the subject was changed by adding shepherds? ... that historian and educ contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2018/December responseCode 3 200 