nsisdoxiuousngkomczadahsleocrkgsvmockkqe length 6 143781 page 10002 Wikipedia guideline for the notability of music topics "WP:MUS", "WP:MUSIC", "WP:BAND", and "WP:NM" redirect here. You may have been looking for Wikipedia:WikiProject Music, Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Music, Wikipedia:WikiProject Musicians, Wikipedia:WikiProject Songs, Wikipedia:WikiProject New Mexico or Wikipedia:WikiProject Museums. For instructions on how to create and include Ogg Theora and Vorbis files on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Creation and usage of media files. This page documents an English Wikipedia notability guideline. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page. Shortcuts WP:NMG WP:NMUSIC WP:NM This page in a nutshell: This page lists the specific criteria for whether musicians, ensembles, composers, lyricists, albums, singles, and songs are notable. These criteria inform the decision whether an article should be dedicated to these people or works. Notability General notability guideline Subject-specific guidelines Academics Astronomical objects Books Events Films Geographic features Music Numbers Organizations and companies People Sports and athletes Web content See also Notability essays Guide to deletion Common deletion outcomes Why was my article deleted? v t e This page provides a guideline for editors in applying the concept of notability to topics related to music, including artists, bands, albums, and songs. Failing to satisfy the notability guidelines is not a criterion for speedy deletion. However, an article on an artist or band that does not indicate that the subject of the article is important or significant can be speedily deleted under criterion A7. A mere claim of significance, even if contested, may avoid speedy deletion under A7, requiring a full proposed deletion or articles for deletion process to determine if the article should be included in Wikipedia. Many who spend significant time improving Wikipedia's musical coverage feel that notability is required for a musical topic (such as a band or musical theatre group) to deserve an encyclopedia article. Please note that the failure to meet any of these criteria does not mean an article must be deleted; conversely, meeting any of these criteria does not mean that an article must be kept. Rather, these are rules of thumb used by some editors when deciding whether or not to keep an article that is listed at articles for deletion. To meet Wikipedia's standards for verifiability and notability, the article in question must actually document that the criterion is true. It is not enough to make unsourced or poorly sourced claims in the article, or to assert a band's importance on a talk page or AfD page – the article itself must document notability through the use of reliable sources, and no criterion listed in this page confers an exemption from having to reliably source the article just because passage of the criterion has been claimed. See also WP:NBIO for notability guidelines for biography articles in general. Criteria for musicians and ensembles Shortcuts WP:BAND WP:MUSICBIO WP:SINGER "WP:MN" redirects here. For the WikiProject on Minnesota, see WP:WPMN. Musicians or ensembles (this category includes bands, singers, rappers, orchestras, DJs, musical theatre groups, instrumentalists, etc.) may be notable if they meet at least one of the following criteria. Note that regardless of what notability criterion is being claimed, the claim must be properly verified by reliable sources independent of the subject's own self-published promotional materials. It is extremely common for aspiring musicians who want a Wikipedia article for the publicity to make inflated or false notability claims, such as charting hits that did not really chart (or which charted only on a non-notable WP:BADCHART) or nominations for awards that are not prominent enough to pass criterion number 8 (below). Thus, notability is not determined by what the article says, it is determined by how well the article does or does not support the things it says by referencing them to independent verification in reliable sources. Has been the subject of multiple, non-trivial, published works appearing in sources that are reliable, not self-published, and are independent of the musician or ensemble itself.[note 1] This criterion includes published works in all forms, such as newspaper articles, books, magazine articles, online versions of print media, and television documentaries[note 2] except for the following: Any reprints of press releases, other publications where the musician or ensemble talks about themselves, and all advertising that mentions the musician or ensemble, including manufacturers' advertising.[note 3] Works consisting merely of trivial coverage, such as articles that simply report performance dates, articles giving release information or track listings, or publications of contact and booking details in directories. Articles in a school or university newspaper (or similar), in most cases. Has had a single or album on any country's national music chart. Has had a record certified gold or higher in at least one country. Has received non-trivial coverage in independent reliable sources of an international concert tour, or a national concert tour in at least one sovereign country.[note 4] Has released two or more albums on a major record label or on one of the more important indie labels (i.e., an independent label with a history of more than a few years, and with a roster of performers, many of whom are independently notable). Is an ensemble that contains two or more independently notable musicians, or is a musician who has been a reasonably prominent member of two or more independently notable ensembles.[note 5] This should be adapted appropriately for musical genre; for example, having performed two lead roles at major opera houses. Note that this criterion needs to be interpreted with caution, as there have been instances where this criterion was cited in a circular manner to create a self-fulfilling notability loop (e.g., musicians who were "notable" only for having been in two bands, of which one or both were "notable" only because those musicians had been in them.) Has become one of the most prominent representatives of a notable style or the most prominent of the local scene of a city; note that the subject must still meet all ordinary Wikipedia standards, including verifiability. Has won or been nominated for a major music award, such as a Grammy, Juno, Mercury, Choice or Grammis award. Has won first, second, or third place in a major music competition. Has performed music for a work of media that is notable, such as a theme for a network television show, performance in a television show or notable film, inclusion on a notable compilation album. (But if this is the only claim, it is probably more appropriate to have a mention in the main article and redirect to that article. Read the policy and notability guideline on subjects notable only for one event, for further clarifications). Has been placed in rotation nationally by a major radio or music television network. Has been a featured subject of a substantial broadcast segment across a national radio or television network. Individual members, reality television performers Shortcuts WP:BANDMEMBER WP:REALITYBIO WP:REALITYSINGER Members of notable bands are redirected to the band's article, not given individual articles, unless they have demonstrated individual notability. Singers and musicians who are only notable for participating in a reality television series may be redirected to an article about the series, until they have demonstrated that they are independently notable. Criteria for composers and lyricists Shortcut WP:COMPOSER For the WikiProject, see Wikipedia:Composers. Composers, songwriters, librettists or lyricists, may be notable if they meet at least one of the following criteria: Has credit for writing or co-writing either lyrics or music for a notable composition. Has written musical theatre of some sort (e.g., musicals, operas) that was performed in a notable theatre that had a reasonable run, as such things are judged in their particular situation, context, and time. Has had a work used as the basis for a later composition by a songwriter, composer, or lyricist who meets the above criteria. Has written a composition that has won (or in some cases been given a second or other place) in a major music competition not established expressly for newcomers. Has been listed as a major influence or teacher of a composer, songwriter, or lyricist that meets the above criteria. Appears at reasonable length in standard reference books on their genre of music. Where possible, composers or lyricists with insufficient verifiable material to warrant a reasonably detailed article should be merged into the article about their work. When a composer or lyricist is known for multiple works, such a merger may not be possible. Others Shortcut WP:NMUSICOTHER Composers and performers outside mass media traditions may be notable if they meet at least one of the following criteria: Is frequently covered in publications devoted to a notable music sub-culture. Has composed a number of notable melodies, tunes, or standards used in a notable music genre. Is cited in reliable sources as being influential in style, technique, repertory, or teaching for a particular music genre. Is cited by reliable sources as having established a tradition or school in a particular music genre. Has been listed as a significant musical influence on musicians or composers who meet the above criteria. Recordings Shortcuts WP:NALBUMS WP:NALBUM All articles on albums or other recordings should meet the basic criteria at the notability guidelines, with significant coverage in reliable sources that are independent of the subject. Specific to recordings, a recording may be  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Notability_(music) responseCode 3 200 