nstgsibcrchcisxijorimikawemqtaxifcvqhmle length 6 228367 page 10010 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... Please add the line ==={{subst:CURRENTDAY}} {{subst:CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{subst:CURRENTYEAR}}=== for each new day and the time the set was removed from the DYK template at the top for the newly posted set of archived hooks. This will ensure all times are based on UTC time and accurate. This page should be archived once a month. Thanks. 31 August 2018 00:00, 31 August 2018 (UTC) St. Peter's Church, Malmö ... that St. Peter's Church (pictured) in Malmö, Sweden, was once the largest town church in Denmark? ... that Doug Gurr, head of Amazon UK, has said that a no-deal Brexit could lead to civil unrest "within two weeks"? ... that the Beach Boys' Transcendental Meditation-inspired Friends (1968) was their last album of the 1960s to involve former bandleader Brian Wilson? ... that referee Bob Nadin said he was referred to as the "pope of the rules", and received the Pierre de Coubertin medal for ice hockey at the Olympic Games? ... that the Gut Holzhausen estate is a biodynamic farm and the venue for a festival called Voices? ... that Gaqo Çako was the lead tenor for more than three decades at the National Theatre of Opera and Ballet of Albania? ... that the entire editorial board of the International Journal of Occupational and Environmental Health resigned in protest in November 2017 over disputes involving the new editor-in-chief? ... that LeBron James Jr. received offers to play basketball at Duke and Kentucky by the age of eleven? 30 August 2018 00:00, 30 August 2018 (UTC) Andrew Rowsey ... that in his final college basketball game, Andrew Rowsey (pictured) broke Marquette's single-season scoring record set by Dwyane Wade? ... that the secretary blenny is a slender ambush predator with large eyes? ... that William Preucil has served as concertmaster for four American orchestras—the Atlanta Symphony, Utah Symphony, Nashville Symphony, and Cleveland Orchestra? ... that the British Army's Peninsular War battalions of detachments were commended for their gallantry on the battlefield but criticised for their conduct in camp? ... that Dutch dermatologist Rudi Cormane pioneered research on immunofluorescence of the skin? ... that the video game Dungeons 3 was described as the closest its developer came to creating a successor to the popular Dungeon Keeper series? ... that Japanese singer Reona was a cosplayer before starting her music career? ... that the US Drug Enforcement Administration is looking for a man known as The Claw? 29 August 2018 00:00, 29 August 2018 (UTC) SMS Admiral Spaun ... that after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the Austro-Hungarian cruiser SMS Admiral Spaun (pictured) escorted the ship carrying his body back to Trieste? ... that as a high school basketball player, Lometa Odom set the Texas single-game scoring record of 78 points in 1951? ... that Takuyo-Daisan was once an island in the South Pacific but is now a seamount off Japan? ... that the Thai Buddhist monk Luang Por Dhammajayo launched an anti-smoking and drinking campaign that won an award from the World Health Organization? ... that after his death, politician, jurist, and general Lucius Torquatus was portrayed by Roman writer Cicero as an advocate for Epicurean ethics? ... that Migrant Architects of the NHS recounts how doctors from the Indian subcontinent immigrated to Britain and became general practitioners? ... that maritime fur trader Thomas Humphrey Metcalfe and most of his crew were killed by Native Hawaiians in revenge for the flogging of a chief by Metcalfe's father days before? ... that on its tenth anniversary, the webcomic "Loss" was replaced by an edited version titled "Found"? 28 August 2018 00:00, 28 August 2018 (UTC) Geyser cone in El Tatio ... that El Tatio (pictured) is the largest geyser field in the southern hemisphere and one of two worldwide with the highest elevation? ... that during Governor Bill Clinton's 1992 presidential campaign, political aide Carol Rasco took over Arkansas's "daily business"? ... that the British TV series Aap Kaa Hak answered health, social and legal questions in Hindi and Urdu? ... that the 1810 Catholic hymnal by Christoph Bernhard Verspoell, with his melodies and organ settings, contains a song included in the Catholic hymnal Gotteslob in 2013? ... that during World War II, future Oregon state senator Gordon W. McKay participated in the Battle of Tarawa as a Seabee? ... that the diet of the skeleton shrimp Caprella equilibra consists mainly of detritus, but it also feeds on the hydroids to which it clings? ... that the Carpenters received hate mail because they combined a soft ballad with a loud electric guitar? ... that Mormon studies scholars have the sense that they are being watched, following previous excommunications of Mormon historians in the field? 27 August 2018 00:00, 27 August 2018 (UTC) Margot Fonteyn ... that Margot Fonteyn (pictured) was The Royal Ballet's prima ballerina for 45 years, before retiring to become a cattle rancher in Panama? ... that Robert Einstein, a cousin of Nobel Prize Laureate Albert Einstein, committed suicide less than a year after his family was murdered by German soldiers in World War II? ... that Ina Hartwig, formerly on the editorial staff of Frankfurter Rundschau, published a biography of Ingeborg Bachmann in 2017? ... that Ralph Vaughan Williams set Psalm 47 in English, O clap your hands, as a motet for choir and orchestra in 1920? ... that after FIBA rules changes limited the availability of NBA players, the U.S. men's basketball team decided to assemble rosters of primarily G Leaguers for the 2019 World Cup qualifiers? ... that a story by Argentine mathematician Magdalena Mouján about a Basque family that travels back in time to their homeland was blocked by the Franco regime? ... that after being rebuilt in May 2018, the open-air Summer Theatre of Tirana held a show in which 400 artists participated? ... that the second test in the Operation Mosaic series under the command of Hugh Martell was the largest detonation of a nuclear device ever to take place in Australia? 26 August 2018 00:00, 26 August 2018 (UTC) Averroes by Andrea di Bonaiuto da Firenze (14th century) ... that Andalusian philosopher Averroes (pictured) theorized that all human beings share a single intellect, and Thomas Aquinas wrote a treatise to refute this theory? ... that Altars of the World was the final recipient of the Golden Globe Award for Best Documentary Film before the award was retired? ... that one of the financers of the Spire, a residential building in Seattle, joined the project as a result of a state visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping? ... that Ülo Nugis was the first Estonian politician to publicly call for Estonia to join NATO, even while Soviet troops were still present in the Baltic nation? ... that the ancestors of the grey cuckooshrike most likely spread to Africa from the Australo-Papuan region? ... that Serge Blanc was the first to record Leonard Bernstein's Serenade after Plato's "Symposium" in France? ... that the single road bridge to Great Island in Cork Harbour is more than 200 years old? ... that in 1964, a school teacher survived for nine months after surgeon Keith Reemtsma transplanted chimpanzee kidneys into her? 25 August 2018 00:00, 25 August 2018 (UTC) Hall at the Palais du Trocadéro in 1878 ... that on 24 August 1878, Charles-Marie Widor premiered his Symphony for Organ No. 6 for the inauguration of the Cavaillé-Coll organ at the Palais du Trocadéro (pictured) as part of the Paris World Exhibition? . contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 72 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2018/August responseCode 3 200 