oaqmtawmyarohsgqkgxaliogtiqgyegqtkfsomzc length 5 78108 page 3601 VDL Groep Type Private Industry Diversified Manufacturing Founded 1953; 70 years ago (1953) by Pieter van der Leegte Headquarters Eindhoven, Netherlands Key people Wim van der Leegte Products Car assembly, Bus, Coach, Finished products and supply Revenue €5.0 billion (2017)[1] Operating income €120.2 million (2014) Net income €153 million (2017)[1] Number of employees 16,137 (2017)[1] Website www.vdlgroep.nl VDL Groep is an international industrial and manufacturing company established in 1953. From its head office in Eindhoven, Netherlands, VDL supervises its subsidiaries, which have a high level of autonomy and responsibility for results. The bus and coach division consists of coaches, public transport buses, chassis modules, second-hand buses and mini & midi buses. The finished products sector is extensive: suspension systems for the automotive industry, production automation systems, heating, cooling and air-technical systems, systems for the oil, gas and petrochemical industry, sunbeds and roof boxes, container handling equipment, systems for the agricultural sector, cigar-making and packaging machines, production systems for optical media and medical systems. The company was formed in 1953 as Metaalindustrie en Constructiewerkplaats P. van der Leegte by Pieter van der Leegte senior, the father of Wim van der Leegte, president and CEO of the company from 1972 until 2016, hence the name VDL. Today,[when?] Wim van der Leegte's youngest son, Willem van der Leegte is the president of the company.[2][3] VDL companies[edit] VDL Bus & Coach - bus and coach builder based in Valkenswaard. VDL Nedcar - a brand independent car manufacturing plant in Born VDL TIM Hapert - is an international company specialized in the mechanical processing of cast and forging works and welding assemblies, spindles and complete products. VDL ETG - Former Philips precision machine factories, specializes in high tech module development, production and assembly. References[edit] ^ a b c "VDL Groep: 2017 is een goed jaar geweest". Retrieved 13 April 2018. ^ "VDL - Wim van der Leegte". vdlgroep.com (in Dutch). 2017. Retrieved 23 May 2017. ^ "VDL - Geschiedenis" [VDL History]. vdlgroep.com (in Dutch). 2017. Retrieved 23 May 2017. External links[edit] VDL official website This article related to bus transport is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e v t e Automotive industry in the Netherlands Automotive industry Transport in the Netherlands Economy of the Netherlands Domestic manufacturers Burton DAF Trucks (1) Donkervoort GINAF Lightyear 0 PAL-V International Spyker N.V. Spyker Cars (2) Terberg Vencer VDL Groep Jonckheere VDL Berkhof VDL Bova VDL Bus & Coach VDL Nedcar Waaijenberg Foreign manufacturers registered in the country CNH Industrial Ferrari Iveco Stellantis Active volume-production factories VDL Nedcar Motor racing constructors APP Automotive Automotive Technology InMotion Saker Cars Solar racing teams Nuon Solar Team Solar Team Eindhoven Solar Team Twente Components manufacturers Chassis Brakes International KONI shock absorbers (1) NXP Semiconductors Automotive design Vandenbrink Design Category:Dutch automobile designers Defunct manufacturers Brons CNH Global DAF NV DAF cars Den Oudsten Coaches Eysink Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Ruska (car) Spyker / Trompenburg United Bus Defunct motor racing Boro (Formula One) Carly Motors Spyker F1 Other AutoRAI Euro NCAP Roads in the Netherlands (1) Under foreign ownership (2) Under automatic stay; bankruptcy petition was filed, but not granted Commons: Automobile manufacturers of the Netherlands contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 43 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/VDL_Groep responseCode 3 200 