ocagyqskwgjgoemodkksdakkuqvizatklefqxgke length 5 92268 page 6860 Variety of English spoken in Bangladesh This article is about the dialect of the English language. For English people of Bangladeshi descent, see British Bangladeshi. Bangladeshi English Native to Bangladesh Language family Indo-European Germanic West Germanic North Sea Germanic Anglo-Frisian English British English Bangladeshi English Early forms Proto-Indo-European Proto-Germanic Old English Middle English Early Modern English Writing system Latin (English alphabet) Unified English Braille Language codes ISO 639-3 – IETF en-BD Bangladeshi English, Banglish, Benglish or Anglo-Bangla is an English accent heavily influenced by the Bengali language and its dialects in Bangladesh and surrounding Indian areas that speak Bengali. [1][2] This variety is very common among Bengalis from Bangladesh, and in West Bengal, Assam and Tripura in India to a lesser extent. The term Benglish was recorded in 1972, and Banglish slightly later, in 1975.[3] Use[edit] Bengali is the sole official and national language of Bangladesh. However, English is often used secondarily in the higher tier of the judiciary in the country. Laws were written in English during the colonial periods. Since the introduction of Bangla Bhasha Procolon Ain, all the laws by parliament and all Ordinances promulgated by the President are being enacted in Bengali[4] in Bangladesh. There are ten English language newspapers in Bangladesh. English medium schools are also operated in English. Mainly, the people of Bangladeshi descent residing in the UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the US and students of English medium schools in Bangladesh use Benglish (though Standard English is also tried to be taught). However, upon public demand in 2012, the High Court of Bangladesh banned the use of Benglish, described as a slang mixture of Bengali and English, in radio and television programs "to protect local tongue."[5] Benglish is a term that has been used in academic papers to describe a mixture of Bangla and English. For example, Benglish verbs are described as a particular type of complex predicate that consists of an English word and a Bengali verb, such as æksiḍenṭ kôrā ‘to have an accident’, in kôrā ‘to get/come/put in’ or kônfyuj kôrā ‘to confuse’.[6][7][8] History[edit] The East India Company adopted English as the official language of the empire in 1835. Replacement of the Persian language with English was followed by a surge in English language learning among Bengali babus. English remained an official language of the region until 1956 when the first constitution of Pakistan was adopted stating Bengali and Urdu as the official languages of the state following the Bengali language movement from 1947 to 1952. After independence, Bengali became the sole official language of Bangladesh, and all English-medium universities, schools and colleges were converted to Bengali instruction in order to spread mass education. Literature[edit] Main article: Bangladeshi English literature Numbering system[edit] The South Asian numbering system is preferred for digit grouping. When written in words, or when spoken, numbers less than 100,000/100 000 are expressed just as they are in Standard English. Numbers including and beyond 100,000 / 100 000 are expressed in a subset of the South Asian numbering system. Thus, the following scale is used: In digits In words (long and short scales) In words (South Asian system) 10 ten 100 one hundred 1,000 one thousand 10,000 ten thousand 100,000 one hundred thousand one lakh 1,000,000 one million ten lakh 10,000,000 ten million one crore See also[edit] Bengal Languages of Bangladesh Languages of India Bengali people Bengali alphabet References[edit] ^ Burhanuddin Khan Jahangir (2002). Nationalism, fundamentalism, and democracy in Bangladesh. International Centre for Bengal Studies. p. 109. ^ "The Two Men: Formative Stage". The Journal of the Institute of BangladeStudies. Rajshahi: Institute of Bangladesh Studies. 30: 10. 2007. ^ Lambert, James. 2018. A multitude of ‘lishes’: The nomenclature of hybridity. English World-wide, 39(1): 22. DOI: 10.1075/eww.38.3.04lam ^ "Towards creating an indigenous legal corpus in Bangla". The Daily Star. 19 February 2019. Archived from the original on 23 April 2019. Retrieved 9 May 2019. ^ "Bangladesh bans 'Banglish' to protect local tongue". The Express Tribune. Agence France-Presse. 17 February 2012. Archived from the original on 8 August 2018. Retrieved 23 November 2015. ^ [1] Shishir Bhattacharja, 2010 Benglish Verbs: a Case of Code-Mixing in Bengali PACLIC 24 Proceedings ^ [2] Kundu ; Subhash Chandra, 2012 Automatic detection of English words in Benglish text: A statistical approach 2012 4th International Conference on Intelligent Human Computer Interaction (IHCI) ^ [3] Hunting Elusive English in Hinglish and Benglish Text: Unfolding Challenges and Remedies, Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) v t e Dialects and accents of Modern English by continent Europe Great Britain England North Cheshire Cumbria Barrow Lancashire Liverpool Manchester Northumbria Pitmatic Sunderland Tyneside Teesside Yorkshire Midlands East Midlands West Midlands Birmingham Black Country Stoke-on-Trent South East Anglia London & Thames Estuary Cockney Multicultural Received Pronunciation West Country Cornwall Dorset Scotland Glasgow Highlands Wales Abercraf Cardiff Gower Port Talbot Ireland Dublin South-West Ulster Channel Islands Gibraltar Isle of Man Americas North America Canada Aboriginal Atlantic Lunenburg Newfoundland Central and West Ottawa Valley Quebec United States Midland New England Boston East Maine West New York City accent North Inland North North-Central Philadelphia Baltimore South Appalachia High Tider New Orleans Older Texas West California Pacific Northwest Western Pennsylvania Social and ethno-cultural African-American vernacular American Indian Cajun Chicano General American Miami Latino New York Latino Pennsylvania Dutch Caribbean The Bahamas Barbados Bequia Cayman Islands Bay Islands Jamaica Saba Samaná Trinidad and Tobago Bermuda Falkland Islands Oceania Australia variation accent Aboriginal South Torres Strait West Fiji New Zealand accent Palau Solomon Islands Africa Cameroon The Gambia Ghana Kenya Liberia Malawi Namibia Nigeria Sierra Leone South Africa accent Cape Flats South Atlantic Uganda Zimbabwe Asia Bangladesh Brunei Hong Kong India regional and occupational Malaysia Myanmar Nepal Pakistan Philippines Singapore Sri Lanka Related English language Basic Broad and general accents Comparison of American and British English E-Prime Engrish English as a lingua franca English-based creole languages Globish Gogate Nerrière International Learning Linguistic purism in English List of English-based pidgins Mid-Atlantic accent Non-native pronunciations of English Plain Standard contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Bangladeshi_English responseCode 3 200 