oclkjaocwkxmsqbkrqbmyemomeegpgscuezqnaka length 5 74556 page 2918 In mathematical logic, a first-order Gödel logic is a member of a family of finite- or infinite-valued logics in which the sets of truth values V are closed subsets of the unit interval [0,1] containing both 0 and 1. Different such sets V in general determine different Gödel logics. The concept is named after Kurt Gödel.[1] References[edit] [2] ^ First-order Gödel logics Authors: Matthias Baaz, Norbert Preining, Richard Zach. ^ Preining, Norbert (2010). "Gödel Logics – A Survey". Logic for Programming, Artificial Intelligence, and Reasoning. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol. 6397. pp. 30–51. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-16242-8_4. ISBN 978-3-642-16241-1. Retrieved 2 March 2022. This mathematical logic-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e v t e Set theory Overview Set (mathematics) Axioms Adjunction Choice countable dependent global Constructibility (V=L) Determinacy Extensionality Infinity Limitation of size Pairing Power set Regularity Union Martin's axiom Axiom schema replacement specification Operations Cartesian product Complement (i.e. set difference) De Morgan's laws Disjoint union Identities Intersection Power set Symmetric difference Union Concepts Methods Almost Cardinality Cardinal number (large) Class Constructible universe Continuum hypothesis Diagonal argument Element ordered pair tuple Family Forcing One-to-one correspondence Ordinal number Set-builder notation Transfinite induction Venn diagram Set types Amorphous Countable Empty Finite (hereditarily) Filter base subbase Ultrafilter Fuzzy Infinite (Dedekind-infinite) Recursive Singleton Subset · Superset Transitive Uncountable Universal Theories Alternative Axiomatic Naive Cantor's theorem Zermelo General Principia Mathematica New Foundations Zermelo–Fraenkel von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel Morse–Kelley Kripke–Platek Tarski–Grothendieck Paradoxes Problems Russell's paradox Suslin's problem Burali-Forti paradox Set theorists Paul Bernays Georg Cantor Paul Cohen Richard Dedekind Abraham Fraenkel Kurt Gödel Thomas Jech John von Neumann Willard Quine Bertrand Russell Thoralf Skolem Ernst Zermelo v t e Logic Outline History Major fields Computer science Formal semantics (natural language) Inference Philosophy of logic Proof Semantics of logic Syntax Logics Classical Informal Critical thinking Reason Mathematical Non-classical Philosophical Theories Argumentation Metalogic Metamathematics Set Foundations Abduction Analytic and synthetic propositions Contradiction Paradox Antinomy Deduction Deductive closure Definition Description Entailment Linguistic Form Induction Logical truth Name Necessity and sufficiency Premise Probability Reference Statement Substitution Truth Validity Lists topics Mathematical logic Boolean algebra Set theory other Logicians Rules of inference Paradoxes Fallacies Logic symbols Philosophy portal Category WikiProject (talk) changes contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/G%C3%B6del_logic responseCode 3 200 