ocmoiqcinepmloyqfoxgfmbgosyemgyeescoikca length 6 541184 page 10078 Leader of the executive branch of the Government of India For list of prime ministers, see List of prime ministers of India. Prime Minister of India Bhārat kē Pradhānamantrī Emblem of India Flag of India Incumbent Narendra Modi since 26 May 2014 (2014-05-26) Prime Minister's Office Union Council of Ministers Executive branch of the Indian Government Style The Honourable Mr. Prime Minister (informal) His Excellency (diplomatic) Type Head of government Status Leader of the Executive Abbreviation PM Member of Parliament of India Union Council of Ministers Reports to President of India Vice President of India Parliament of India Residence 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, New Delhi, Delhi, India Seat Prime Minister's Office, South Block, Central Secretariat, Raisina Hill, New Delhi, Delhi, India Nominator Lok Sabha members Appointer President of India by convention, based on appointee's ability to command confidence in the Lok Sabha Term length At the pleasure of the President Lok Sabha term is 5 years unless dissolved sooner No term limits specified Constituting instrument Articles 74 & 75, Constitution of India Precursor Vice President of the Executive Council Formation 15 August 1947; 76 years ago (1947-08-15) First holder Jawaharlal Nehru Deputy Deputy Prime Minister Salary ₹600,000 (US$7,500) (per month)[1] ₹7,200,000 (US$90,000) (Annual)[1] Website pmindia.gov.in This article is part of a series on the Politics of India Union Government Constitution of India Law Human rights Taxation Law enforcement Indian criminal law Indian Penal Code Code of Criminal Procedure Executive President of India Droupadi Murmu Vice President of India Jagdeep Dhankhar Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi (BJP) Cabinet secretary Union Council of Ministers Government agencies Legislature Parliament of India Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla (BJP) Deputy Speaker Vacant House Leader Narendra Modi (BJP) Opposition Leader Vacant Members of Lok Sabha Rajya Sabha Chairman Jagdeep Dhankhar Deputy Speaker Harivansh Narayan Singh House Leader Piyush Goyal (BJP) Opposition Leader Mallikarjun Kharge (INC) Members of Rajya Sabha Judiciary Supreme Court of India Chief Justice Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud Justices (List) District Courts High Courts Other tribunals Elections General elections 2009 2014 2019 2024 State elections 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Political parties National coalitions National Democratic Alliance (NDA) Indian National Developmental Inclusive Alliance (INDIA) National parties State parties Federalism State Government Governors (List) Legislatures (List) High Courts Local government India portal Other countries v t e The prime minister of India (IAST: Bhārat kē Pradhānamantrī) is the head of government of the Republic of India.[2][3] Executive authority is vested in the prime minister and his chosen Council of Ministers,[4][5][6] despite the president of India being the nominal head of the executive.[7][8][9][10] The prime minister is often the leader of the party or the coalition with a majority in the lower house of the Parliament of India, the Lok Sabha,[11] which is the main legislative body in the Republic of India.[12] The prime minister and their cabinet are at all times responsible to the Lok Sabha.[13][14] The prime minister is appointed by the president of India; however, the prime minister has to enjoy the confidence of the majority of Lok Sabha members, who are directly elected every five years, lest the prime minister shall resign. The prime minister can be a member of the Lok Sabha or of the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of the parliament. The prime minister controls the selection and dismissal of members of the Union Council of Ministers; and allocation of posts to members within the government. The longest-serving prime minister was Jawaharlal Nehru, also the first prime minister, whose tenure lasted 16 years and 286 days. His premiership was followed by Lal Bahadur Shastri's short tenure and Indira Gandhi's 11- and 4-year-long tenures, both politicians belonging to the Indian National Congress. After Indira Gandhi's assassination, her son Rajiv Gandhi took charge until 1989, when a decade with five unstable governments began. This was followed by the full terms of P. V. Narasimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh, and Narendra Modi. Modi is the 14th and current prime minister of India, serving since 26 May 2014. Origins and history India follows a parliamentary system in which the prime minister is the presiding head of the government and chief of the executive of the government. In such systems, the head of state, or, the head of state's official representative (i.e., the monarch, president, or governor-general) usually holds a purely ceremonial position and acts—on most matters—only on the advice of the prime minister. The prime minister—if they are not already—must become a member of parliament within six months of beginning their tenure. A prime minister is expected to work with other central ministers to ensure the passage of bills by the parliament. 1947–1984 Lord Mountbatten swears in Jawaharlal Nehru as the first Prime Minister of India on 15 August 1947. Lal Bahadur Shastri, K. Kamaraj, and Nehru, ca. 1963 Since 1947, there have been 14 different prime ministers.[a] The first few decades after 1947 saw the Indian National Congress' (INC) near complete domination over the political map of India. India's first prime minister—Jawaharlal Nehru—took oath on 15 August 1947. Nehru went on to serve as prime minister for 17 consecutive years, winning four general elections in the process. His tenure ended in May 1964, on his death.[15][16] After the death of Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri—a former home minister and a leader of the Congress party—ascended to the position of prime minister. Shastri's tenure saw the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965. Shashtri subsequently died of a reported heart attack in Tashkent, after signing the Tashkent Declaration.[17] After Shastri, Indira Gandhi—Nehru's daughter—was elected as the country's first woman prime minister. Indira's first term in office lasted 11 years, in which she took steps such as nationalisation of banks;[18] end of allowances and political posts, which were received by members of the royal families of the erstwhile princely states of the British Indian Empire.[19][20] In addition, events such as the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971;[21] the establishment of a sovereign Bangladesh;[22] accession of Sikkim to India, through a referendum in 1975;[23] and India's first nuclear test in Pokhran occurred during Indira's first term. In 1975, President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed—on Indira's advice—imposed a state of emergency, therefore, bestowing the government with the power to rule by decree, the period is known for human right violations.[24][25] After widespread protests, the emergency was lifted in 1977, and a general election was to be held. All of the political parties of the opposition—after the conclusion of the emergency—fought together against the Congress, under the umbrella of the Janata Party, in the general election of 1977, and were successful in defeating the Congress. Subsequently, Morarji Desai—a former deputy prime minister—became the first non-Congress prime minister of India. The government of prime minister Desai was composed of groups with opposite ideologies, in which unity and co-ordination were difficult to maintain. Ultimately, after two and a half years as PM; on 28 July 1979, Morarji tendered his resignation to the president; and his government fell. Thereafter, Charan Singh—a deputy prime minister in Desai's cabinet—with outside, conditional support from Congress, proved a majority in Lok Sabha and took oath as prime minister.[26][27] However, Congress pulled its support shortly after, and Singh had to resign; he had a tenure of 5 months, the shortest in the history of the office. Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and Shahbanu Farah Pahlavi of Iran being received by prime minister Indira Gandhi at New Delhi airport, 1970 US President Jimmy Carter (right) with Prime minister Morarji Desai, 1978 In 1980, after a three-year absence, the Congress returned to power with an absolute majority. Indira Gandhi was elected prime minister a second time.[28] During her second tenure, Operation Blue Star—an Indian Army operation inside the Golden Temple, the most sacred site in Sikhism—was conducted, resulting in reportedly thousands of deaths.[29] Subsequently, on 31 October 1984, Gandhi was shot dead by Satwant Singh and Beant Singh—two of her bodyguards—in the garden of her residence at 1, Safdarjung Road, New Delhi.[30] 1984–1999 After Indira, Rajiv—her eldest son and 40 years old at the time—was sworn in on the evening of 31 October 1984, becoming the youngest person ever to hold the office of prime minister. Rajiv immediately called for a general election. In the subsequent general election, the Congress secured an absolute majority, winning 401 of 552 seats in the Lok Sabha, the maximum number received by any party in the history of India.[31][32] Vishwanath Pratap Singh—first finance minister and then later defence minister in Gandhi's cabinet—uncovered irregularities, in what became known as the Bofors scandal, during his stint at the Ministry of Defence; Singh was subsequently expelled from Congress and formed the Janata Dal and—with the help of several anti-Congress parties—also formed the National Front, a coalition of many political parties.[33] In the general election of 1989, the National Front—with outside support from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Left Front—came to power.[34] V. P. Singh was elected prime minister.[34] During a tenure of less than a year, Singh and his government accepted the Mandal Commission's recommendations.[35] Singh's tenure came to an end after he ordered the arrest of BJP member Lal Krishna Advani,[36] as a result, BJP withdrew its outside support to the government, V. P. Singh lost the subsequent vote-of-no-confidence 146–320 and  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_India responseCode 3 200 