oitqloskmkkkaceegcrisehglebkfcycrsdmxgas length 6 120831 page 8391 Additional mathematical object For the notion of "structure" in mathematical logic, see Structure (mathematical logic). This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (April 2016) (template removal help) In mathematics, a structure is a set endowed with some additional features on the set (e.g. an operation, relation, metric, or topology). Often, the additional features are attached or related to the set, so as to provide it with some additional meaning or significance. A partial list of possible structures are measures, algebraic structures (groups, fields, etc.), topologies, metric structures (geometries), orders, graphs, events, equivalence relations, differential structures, and categories. Sometimes, a set is endowed with more than one feature simultaneously, which allows mathematicians to study the interaction between the different structures more richly. For example, an ordering imposes a rigid form, shape, or topology on the set, and if a set has both a topology feature and a group feature, such that these two features are related in a certain way, then the structure becomes a topological group.[1] Mappings between sets which preserve structures (i.e., structures in the domain are mapped to equivalent structures in the codomain) are of special interest in many fields of mathematics. Examples are homomorphisms, which preserve algebraic structures; homeomorphisms, which preserve topological structures;[2] and diffeomorphisms, which preserve differential structures. History[edit] In 1939, the French group with the pseudonym Nicolas Bourbaki saw structures as the root of mathematics. They first mentioned them in their "Fascicule" of Theory of Sets and expanded it into Chapter IV of the 1957 edition.[3] They identified three mother structures: algebraic, topological, and order.[3][4] Example: the real numbers[edit] The set of real numbers has several standard structures: An order: each number is either less than or greater than any other number. Algebraic structure: there are operations of addition and multiplication, the first of which makes it into a group and the pair of which together make it into a field. A measure: intervals of the real line have a specific length, which can be extended to the Lebesgue measure on many of its subsets. A metric: there is a notion of distance between points. A geometry: it is equipped with a metric and is flat. A topology: there is a notion of open sets. There are interfaces among these: Its order and, independently, its metric structure induce its topology. Its order and algebraic structure make it into an ordered field. Its algebraic structure and topology make it into a Lie group, a type of topological group. See also[edit] Abstract structure Isomorphism Equivalent definitions of mathematical structures Intuitionistic type theory Mathematical object Space (mathematics) References[edit] ^ Saunders, Mac Lane (1996). "Structure in Mathematics" (PDF). Philosoph1A Mathemat1Ca. 4 (3): 176. ^ Christiansen, Jacob Stordal (2015). "Mathematical structures" (PDF). maths.lth.se. Retrieved 2019-12-09. ^ a b Corry, Leo (September 1992). "Nicolas Bourbaki and the concept of mathematical structure". Synthese. 92 (3): 315–348. doi:10.1007/bf00414286. JSTOR 20117057. S2CID 16981077. ^ Wells, Richard B. (2010). Biological signal processing and computational neuroscience (PDF). pp. 296–335. Retrieved 7 April 2016. Further reading[edit] Foldes, Stephan (1994). Fundamental Structures of Algebra and Discrete Mathematics. Hoboken: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9781118031438. Hegedus, Stephen John; Moreno-Armella, Luis (2011). "The emergence of mathematical structures". Educational Studies in Mathematics. 77 (2): 369–388. doi:10.1007/s10649-010-9297-7. S2CID 119981368. Kolman, Bernard; Busby, Robert C.; Ross, Sharon Cutler (2000). Discrete mathematical structures (4th ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall. ISBN 978-0-13-083143-9. Malik, D.S.; Sen, M.K. (2004). Discrete mathematical structures : theory and applications. Australia: Thomson/Course Technology. ISBN 978-0-619-21558-3. Pudlák, Pavel (2013). "Mathematical structures". Logical foundations of mathematics and computational complexity a gentle introduction. Cham: Springer. pp. 2–24. ISBN 9783319001197. Senechal, M. (21 May 1993). "Mathematical Structures". Science. 260 (5111): 1170–1173. doi:10.1126/science.260.5111.1170. PMID 17806355. External links[edit] "Structure". PlanetMath. (provides a model theoretic definition.) Mathematical structures in computer science (journal) v t e Mathematical logic General Axiom list Cardinality First-order logic Formal proof Formal semantics Foundations of mathematics Information theory Lemma Logical consequence Model Theorem Theory Type theory Theorems (list) & paradoxes Gödel's completeness and incompleteness theorems Tarski's undefinability Banach–Tarski paradox Cantor's theorem, paradox and diagonal argument Compactness Halting problem Lindström's Löwenheim–Skolem Russell's paradox Logics Traditional Classical logic Logical truth Tautology Proposition Inference Logical equivalence Consistency Equiconsistency Argument Soundness Validity Syllogism Square of opposition Venn diagram Propositional Boolean algebra Boolean functions Logical connectives Propositional calculus Propositional formula Truth tables Many-valued logic 3 finite ∞ Predicate First-order list Second-order Monadic Higher-order Free Quantifiers Predicate Monadic predicate calculus Set theory Set hereditary Class (Ur-)Element Ordinal number Extensionality Forcing Relation equivalence partition Set operations: intersection union complement Cartesian product power set identities Types of sets Countable Uncountable Empty Inhabited Singleton Finite Infinite Transitive Ultrafilter Recursive Fuzzy Universal Universe constructible Grothendieck Von Neumann Maps & cardinality Function/Map domain codomain image In/Sur/Bi-jection Schröder–Bernstein theorem Isomorphism Gödel numbering Enumeration Large cardinal inaccessible Aleph number Operation binary Set theories Zermelo–Fraenkel axiom of choice continuum hypothesis General Kripke–Platek Morse–Kelley Naive New Foundations Tarski–Grothendieck Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel Ackermann Constructive Formal systems (list), language & syntax Alphabet Arity Automata Axiom schema Expression ground Extension by definition conservative Relation Formation rule Grammar Formula atomic closed ground open Free/bound variable Language Metalanguage Logical connective ¬ ∨ ∧ → ↔ = Predicate functional variable propositional variable Proof Quantifier ∃ ! ∀ rank Sentence atomic spectrum Signature String Substitution Symbol function logical/constant non-logical variable Term Theory list Example axiomatic systems (list) of arithmetic: Peano second-order elementary function primitive recursive Robinson Skolem of the real numbers Tarski's axiomatization of Boolean algebras canonical minimal axioms of geometry: Euclidean: Elements Hilbert's Tarski's non-Euclidean Principia Mathematica Proof theory Formal proof Natural deduction Logical consequence Rule of inference Sequent calculus Theorem Systems axiomatic deductive Hilbert list Complete theory Independence (from ZFC) Proof of impossibility Ordinal analysis Reverse mathematics Self-verifying theories Model theory Interpretation function of models Model equivalence finite saturated spectrum submodel Non-standard model of arithmetic Diagram elementary Categorical theory Model complete theory Satisfiability Semantics of logic Strength Theories of truth semantic Tarski's Kripke's T-schema Transfer principle Truth predicate Truth value Type Ultraproduct Validity Computability theory Church encoding Church–Turing thesis Computably enumerable Computable function Computable set Decision problem decidable undecidable P NP P versus NP problem Kolmogorov complexity Lambda calculus Primitive recursive function Recursion Recursive set Turing machine Type theory Related Abstract logic Category theory Concrete/Abstract category Category of sets History of logic History of mathematical logic timeline Logicism Mathematical object Philosophy of mathematics Supertask Mathematics portal Authority control databases: National Germany contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Mathematical_structure responseCode 3 200 