ombinapsuceirehsngqockkkjecqrolmtgrgccvq length 6 517906 page 10015 This article is about ontology in philosophy. For the concept in information science and computing, see Ontology (information science). Not to be confused with Oncology, Odontology, Ontogeny, or Deontology. Philosophical study of being and existence An illustration of Cartesian materialism, which argues that it is possible to find the content of conscious experience moment by moment in the mind. Materialism in general, arguing that matter is the fundamental 'substance', is an influential perspective on ontology. Part of a series on Philosophy Left to right: Plato, Kant, Nietzsche, Buddha, Confucius, Avicenna Plato Kant Nietzsche The Buddha Confucius Avicenna Philosophy portal Contents Outline Lists Glossary History Categories Disambiguation Philosophies By period Ancient Ancient Egyptian Ancient Greek Medieval Renaissance Modern Contemporary Analytic Continental By region African Egypt Ethiopia South Africa Eastern philosophy Chinese Indian Indonesia Japan Korea Vietnam Indigenous American Aztec philosophy Middle Eastern philosophy Iranian Western American British French German Italian Russian By religion Buddhist Confucian Christian Hindu Islamic Jain Jewish Taoist Branches Epistemology Ethics Logic Metaphysics Aesthetics Axiology Culture Education History Language Law Linguistics Metaethics Metaphilosophy Methodology Music Ontology Mind Phenomenology Politics Psychology Religion Science Society Schools Behaviorism Empiricism Feminism Humanism Idealism Materialism Nihilism Pragmatism Rationalism Realism Anti- Stoicism Philosophers Aesthetic philosophers Epistemologists Ethicists Logicians Metaphysicians Philosophers of mind Social and political philosophers Women in philosophy v t e In metaphysics, ontology is the philosophical study of being. It investigates what types of entities exist, how they are grouped into categories, and how they are related to one another on the most fundamental level. Ontologists often try to determine what the categories or highest kinds are and how they form a system of categories that encompasses the classification of all entities. Commonly proposed categories include substances, properties, relations, states of affairs, and events. These categories are characterized by fundamental ontological concepts, including particularity and universality, abstractness and concreteness, or possibility and necessity. Of special interest is the concept of ontological dependence, which determines whether the entities of a category exist on the most fundamental level. Disagreements within ontology are often about whether entities belonging to a certain category exist and, if so, how they are related to other entities.[1] When used as a countable noun, the words ontology and ontologies refer not to the science of being but to theories within the science of being. Ontological theories can be divided into various types according to their theoretical commitments. Monocategorical ontologies hold that there is only one basic category, but polycategorical ontologies rejected this view. Hierarchical ontologies assert that some entities exist on a more fundamental level and that other entities depend on them. Flat ontologies, on the other hand, deny such a privileged status to any entity. Etymology[edit] See also: Classical compound The compound word ontology ('study of being') combines onto- (Greek: ὄν, on;[note 1] GEN. ὄντος, ontos, 'being' or 'that which is') and -logia (-λογία, 'logical discourse').[2][3] While the etymology is Greek, the oldest extant records of the word itself is a Neo-Latin form ontologia, which appeared in 1606 in the Ogdoas Scholastica by Jacob Lorhard (Lorhardus), and in 1613 in the Lexicon philosophicum by Rudolf Göckel (Goclenius). The first occurrence in English of ontology, as recorded by the Oxford English Dictionary,[4] came in 1664 through Archelogia philosophica nova... by Gideon Harvey.[5] The word was first used, in its Latin form, by philosophers, and based on the Latin roots (and in turn on the Greek ones). Overview[edit] Ontology is closely associated with Aristotle's question of 'being qua being': the question of what all entities in the widest sense have in common.[6][7] The Eleatic principle is one answer to this question: it states that being is inextricably tied to causation, that "Power is the mark of Being".[6] One problem with this answer is that it excludes abstract objects. Another explicit but little accepted answer can be found in Berkeley's slogan that "to be is to be perceived".[8] Intimately related but not identical to the question of 'being qua being' is the problem of categories.[6] Categories are usually seen as the highest kinds or genera.[9] A system of categories provides a classification of entities that is exclusive and exhaustive: every entity belongs to exactly one category. Various such classifications have been proposed, they often include categories for substances, properties, relations, states of affairs or events.[6][10] At the core of the differentiation between categories are various fundamental ontological concepts and distinctions, for example, the concepts of particularity and universality, of abstractness and concreteness, of ontological dependence, of identity and of modality.[6][10] These concepts are sometimes treated as categories themselves, are used to explain the difference between categories or play other central roles for characterizing different ontological theories. Within ontology, there is a lack of general consensus concerning how the different categories are to be defined.[9] Different ontologists often disagree on whether a certain category has any members at all or whether a given category is fundamental.[10] Particulars and universals[edit] Particulars or individuals are usually contrasted with universals.[11][12] Universals concern features that can be exemplified by various different particulars.[13] For example, a tomato and a strawberry are two particulars that exemplify the universal redness. Universals can be present at various distinct locations in space at the same time while particulars are restricted to one location at a time. Furthermore, universals can be fully present at different times, which is why they are sometimes referred to as repeatables in contrast to non-repeatable particulars.[10] The so-called problem of universals is the problem to explain how different things can agree in their features, e.g. how a tomato and a strawberry can both be red.[6][13] Realists believe that there are universals. They can solve the problem of universals by explaining the commonality through a universal shared by both entities.[10] Realists are divided among themselves as to whether universals can exist independently of being exemplified by something ("ante res") or not ("in rebus").[14] Nominalists, on the other hand, deny that there are universals. They use other notions to explain how a feature can be common to several entities, for example, by positing either fundamental resemblance-relations between the entities (resemblance nominalism) or a shared membership to a common natural class (class nominalism).[10] Abstract and concrete[edit] Main article: Abstract and concrete Many philosophers agree that there is an exclusive and exhaustive distinction between concrete objects and abstract objects.[10] Some philosophers consider this to be the most general division of being.[15] Examples of concrete objects include plants, human beings and planets while things like numbers, sets and propositions are abstract objects.[16] But despite the general agreement concerning the paradigm cases, there is less consensus as to what the characteristic marks of concreteness and abstractness are. Popular suggestions include defining the distinction in terms of the difference between (1) existence inside or outside spacetime, (2) having causes and effects or not and (3) having contingent or necessary existence.[17][18] Ontological dependence[edit] Main article: Grounding (metaphysics) An entity ontologically depends on another entity if the first entity cannot exist without the second entity. Ontologically independent entities, on the other hand, can exist all by themselves.[19] For example, the surface of an apple cannot exist without the apple and so depends on it ontologically.[20] Entities often characterized as ontologically dependent include properties, which depend on their bearers, and boundaries, which depend on the entity they demarcate from its surroundings.[21] As these examples suggest, ontological dependence is to be distinguished from causal dependence, in which an effect depends for its existence on a cause. It is often important to draw a distinction between two types of ontological dependence: rigid and generic.[21][10] Rigid dependence concerns the dependence on one specific entity, as the surface of an apple depends on its specific apple.[22] Generic dependence, on the other hand, involves a weaker form of dependence, on merely a certain type of entity. For example, electricity generically depends on there being charged particles, but it does not depend on any specific charged particle.[21] Dependence-relations are relevant to ontology since it is often held that ontologically dependent entities have a less robust form of being. This way a hierarchy is introduced into the world that brings with it the distinction between more and less fundamental entities.[21] Identity[edit] Identity is a basic ontological concept that is often expressed by the word "same".[10][23] It is important to distinguish between qualitative identity and numerical identity. For example, consider two children with identical bicycles engaged in a race while their mother is watching. The two children have the same bicycle in one sense (qualitative identity) and the same mother in another sense (numerical identity).[10] Two qualitatively identical things are often said to be indiscernible. The two senses of sameness are linked by two p contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 42 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Ontology responseCode 3 200 