omzghelgiaeslqaesmjktspidesefsuanemeuisa length 6 179949 page 10036 Bicameral legislature of Argentina For the building, see Palace of the Argentine National Congress. Congress of the Argentine Congreso de la Nación Argentina Type Type Bicameral Houses Senate Chamber of Deputies Leadership President of the Senate & Vice President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, UP since 10 December 2019 Provisional President of the Senate Claudia Ledesma Abdala, UP since 10 December 2019 President of the Chamber of Deputies Cecilia Moreau, UP since 3 August 2022 Structure Seats 329 members 72 Senators (List) 257 Deputies (List) Senate political groups Government (35) Union for the Homeland (35) Independents (3) Misiones (1) JSRN (1) HPC (1) Opposition (34) JxC (33) Mediar (1) Chamber of Deputies political groups Government (118) Union for the Homeland (118) Independents (15) Federal (8) United Provinces (5) SER (2) Opposition (124) JxC (116) FIT–U (4) Avanza Libertad (2) Libertad Avanza (2) Elections Last Senate election 14 November 2021 Last Chamber of Deputies election 14 November 2021 Next Senate election 2023 Next Chamber of Deputies election 2023 Meeting place Argentine National Congress Palace Buenos Aires, Argentina Website Congreso de la Nación (in Spanish) The Congress of the Argentine Nation (Spanish: Congreso de la Nación Argentina) is the legislative branch of the government of Argentina. Its composition is bicameral, constituted by a 72-seat Senate and a 257-seat Chamber of Deputies. The Senate, whose members are elected to six-year terms renewable by thirds each two years, consists of three representatives from each province and the federal capital. The Chamber of Deputies, whose members are elected to four-year terms, is apportioned according to population, and renews their members by a half each two years. The Congressional Palace is located in Buenos Aires, at the western end of Avenida de Mayo (at the other end of which is located the Casa Rosada). The Kilometre Zero for all Argentine National Highways is marked on a milestone at the Congressional Plaza, next to the building. Attributes[edit] The Argentine National Congress is bicameral, composed of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. The ordinary sessions span is from March 1 to November 30; the President of Argentina is entitled to convene extraordinary sessions during the recess, if needed.[1] Senators and deputies enjoy parliamentary immunity during their mandates, which may be revoked by their peers if a senator or deputy is caught in flagrante, in the midst of committing a crime.[2] The Congress rules the Central Bank of Argentina,[3] manages internal and external debt payment,[4] and the value of national currency[5] (currently the Argentine peso). It rules the legal codes on Civil, Commercial, Penal, Minery, Work and Social Welfare affairs, all of which cannot be in contradiction with the respective provincial codes.[6] Any changes on national or provincial limits, or the creation of new provinces, ought to be allowed by the Congress.[7] The Congress is entitled to approve or reject every international treaty that Argentina signs with other states or international organizations. When approved, the treaties acquire priority over ordinary legislation.[8] Declarations of war and the signing of peace,[9] as well as the mobilization of the national troops, within or outside of the Argentine territory[10] must be allowed by the Congress. The Chamber of Deputies is the lower House of the National Congress. It holds exclusive rights to set taxes and customs; to draft troops; and to accuse the President, Ministers, and members of the Supreme Court before the Senate. Additionally, the Chamber of Deputies receives for consideration bills presented by popular initiative. The Senate is the upper House of the National Congress. It must obtain quorum to deliberate, this being an absolute majority. It has the power to approve bills passed by the Chamber of Deputies, call for joint sessions with the Lower House or special sessions with experts and interested parties, and submit bills for the president's signature; bills introduced in the Senate must, in turn, be approved by the Lower House for their submittal to the president. The Senate must introduce any changes to federal revenue sharing policies, ratify international treaties, approve changes to constitutional or federal criminal laws, as well as confirm or impeach presidential nominees to the cabinet, the judiciary, the armed forces, and the diplomatic corps, among other federal posts. History[edit] From 1976 to 1983, the Congressional Palace of Argentina housed the CAL (Legislative Advisory Commission), a group of officers from the three Armed Forces. Commissioned to review and discuss laws before they were issued by the Executive Branch, they served a succession of de facto military presidents during the National Reorganization Process. In practice, this became a mechanism to detect and discuss the differences between the three commanders-in-chief of the Army, Navy, and Air Force regarding a specific project. The CAL was established by the Acta del Proceso de Reorganización Nacional (National Reorganization Process Act), the guiding document for the military government established after the coup d'état of March 24, 1976. Following a 1994 reform of the Constitution, the Senate was expanded from 48 members (two per province or district) to 72 members, whereby the party garnering second place in elections for Senator would be assured the third seat for the corresponding province. Representation[edit] Each province elects 3 Senators to the Senate, whereas every 161,000 Argentine citizens elect a Deputy. Currently, there are 72 Senators and 257 National Deputies in the Congress. District Number of Senators Number of Deputies Autonomous City of Buenos Aires 3 25 Province of Buenos Aires 3 70 Province of Catamarca 3 5 Province of Chaco 3 7 Province of Chubut 3 5 Province of Córdoba 3 18 Province of Corrientes 3 7 Province of Entre Ríos 3 9 Province of Formosa 3 5 Province of Jujuy 3 6 Province of La Pampa 3 5 Province of La Rioja 3 5 Province of Mendoza 3 10 Province of Misiones 3 7 Province of Neuquén 3 5 Province of Río Negro 3 5 Province of Salta 3 7 Province of San Juan 3 6 Province of San Luis 3 5 Province of Santa Cruz 3 5 Province of Santa Fe 3 19 Province of Santiago del Estero 3 7 Province of Tierra del Fuego 3 5 Province of Tucumán 3 9 Total 72 257 See also[edit] Argentina portal Politics of Argentina Executive President (List) :Alberto Fernández Vice President :Cristina Fernández de Kirchner Ministries Legislative Senate (List) Chamber of Deputies (List) Judiciary Supreme Court Attorney General Council of Magistracy of the Nation Law Constitution Human rights LGBT rights Administrative divisions Provinces Governors Legislatures Departments Recent elections Presidential: 2011 2015 2019 2023 Legislative: 2015 2017 2019 2021 Political parties Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs : Minister: Santiago Cafiero (list) Diplomatic missions of / in Argentina Nationality law Passport Visa requirements Visa policy Argentina portal Other countries v t e Opening of regular sessions of the National Congress of Argentina Argentine National Congress Palace List of current Argentine Senators List of current Argentine Deputies Politics of Argentina List of legislatures by country Bibliography[edit] "National Constitution of Argentina". Constitution of Argentina (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 2004-06-17. References[edit] ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 63 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 69 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 75, i.6 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 75, i.7 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 75, i.11 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 75, i.12 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 75, i.15 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 75, i.22 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 75, i.25 ^ Argentine Constitution, art. 75, i.28 External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Palacio del Congreso de la Nación Argentina. The official website of Congress Satellite picture by Google Maps 34°36′34.75″S 58°23′33.29″W﻿ / ﻿34.6096528°S 58.3925806°W﻿ / -34.6096528; -58.3925806 v t e Government of Argentina Executive President Historic list General Secretariat Legal and Technical Secretariat Vice President Historic list Legislative Senate list provisional president Chamber of Deputies list president National Congress Judiciary Supreme Court Attorney General Council of Magistracy Ministries Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers Culture Defense Economy Education Environment Interior Foreign Affairs and Worship Habitat Health Security Justice Labour Science Social Development Public Works Tourism Transport Women and Diversity Agencies AFI AFIP ANSES National Parks Administration Antarctic Institute Anti-Corruption Bureau Archive of the Nation CNEA Central Bank CITEDEF Civil Aviation CONAE CONICET House of Money National Directorate for Migration INADI INAI INAPL INCAA INDEC Mortgage Bank National Archive of Remembrance National Bank National Endowment for Arts PAMI SEDRONAR SIGEN SSN Weather Service White Helmets Companies Current Aerolíneas Argentinas AySA ARSAT Correo Argentino ENARSA Fabricaciones Militares FAdeA LADE Trenes Argentinos Operaciones Cargas Infraestructura Tandanor YCRT Defunct Austral ENTel FAdeL Ferrocarriles Argentinos IAME Obras Sanitarias YCF Communications Argentine Broadcast ENACOM Encuentro National Radio Pakapaka Public Television Télam Armed Forces Army Navy Air Force Law enforcement Federal Police Gendarmerie Category Commons v t e Argentina articles History First inhabitants Colonial Argentina Governorate Viceroyalty War of Independence Civil Wars Generation of '80 Arms race with Chile Dreadnought race with Brazil, Chile Infamous Decade World War II Peronism Dirty War National Reorganization Process Falklands War Trial of the Juntas December 2001 riots Geography Cities Climate Earthquakes Environment Extreme points Fauna Flora Islands Mountains National Parks Regions Rive contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Argentine_National_Congress responseCode 3 200 