oqseacwimmlqykueqorihalglgzmnglivaxcsivk length 6 242802 page 10311 Missile attack during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine Chuhuiv Air Base Attack Part of Eastern Ukraine campaign of the Russian invasion of Ukraine Chuhuiv Air Base, in 2008 Date 24 February 2022 (2022-02-24) Location Chuhuiv, Chuhuiv Raion, Kharkiv Oblast, Ukraine 49°50′24″N 036°38′50″E﻿ / ﻿49.84000°N 36.64722°E﻿ / 49.84000; 36.64722 Result Russian victory Aircraft, fuel tanks and infrastructure destroyed Belligerents Ukraine Russia Units involved Ukrainian Armed Forces Russian Armed Forces Casualties and losses 5 L-39 attack trainers destroyed or damaged 4 Bayraktar TB-2 drones destroyed None class=notpageimage| Location within Ukraine Show map of Ukraine Chuhuiv air base attack (Kharkiv Oblast) Show map of Kharkiv Oblast v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia On 24 February 2022, the Chuhuiv Air Base in Chuhuiv, Kharkiv Oblast, Ukraine was the target of an air strike by Russian forces as part of the eastern Ukraine offensive during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. Background[edit] The Chuhuiv air base is located in the city of Chuhuiv in Kharkiv Oblast in Ukraine. The air base was capable of housing Baykar Bayraktar TB2 drones, as did the military airfields in Starokostyantyniv and Mykolaiv.[1] Attack[edit] In the opening hours of the Russian military invasion of Ukraine, a Russian missile attack targeted the Chuhuiv air base.[2][3] Following the attack, the US-based space technologies' company Maxar published satellite images depicting damage resulting from the missile strike.[4][5] According to open-source intelligence information, the attack left damage to fuel storage areas and other airport infrastructure.[6] Also, at least five L-39 jet trainers, parked at the air base, were either destroyed or heavily damaged.[7] Four Bayraktar TB2 drones were abandoned at the base and later destroyed on the ground by Ukrainian Forces, amid reported Russian rocket attacks.[8] Later attacks[edit] On 10 April 2022, Russian officials claimed their forces targeted Ukrainian S-300 air defences present at Chuhuiv airbase.[9] References[edit] ^ "Turkish Bayraktar TB2 Patrolling Ukrainian Border". Defense Express. 15 February 2022. Archived from the original on 6 March 2022. Retrieved 6 March 2022. ^ "Ukraine: Video appears to show aftermath of missile strike on air base in Chuhuiv". Sky News. 24 February 2022. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 6 March 2022. ^ "Satellite images show the aftermath of air strikes on a Ukrainian airfield after Russia's invasion". Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 24 February 2022. ^ "War Damage In Ukraine, Seen From Above And On The Ground". Radio Liberty Free Europe. 25 February 2022. Archived from the original on 9 March 2022. Retrieved 6 March 2022. ^ Chelsea Gohd (25 February 2022). "Satellite photos reveal details of Russian invasion into Ukraine". space.com. ^ Sheetz, Michael (24 February 2022). "Satellite imagery shows Russian attack on Ukraine from space". CNBC. Archived from the original on 7 March 2022. Retrieved 6 March 2022. ^ "ASN Wikibase Occurrence # 275907". aviation-safety.net. 24 February 2022. ^ "Кримінальні справи (з 01.01.2019); Кримінальні правопорушення проти встановленого порядку несення військової служби (військові кримінальні правопорушення); Умисне знищення або пошкодження військового майна". Ukrainian Tribunal (in Ukrainian). 12 December 2022. Archived from the original on 25 March 2023. ^ "Украинские ЗРС С-300 уничтожены в Николаевской области и на военном аэродроме Чугуев - Минобороны РФ (версия 2)". Intefax Ru. 10 April 2022. v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Part of the Russo-Ukrainian War Overview General Outline Timeline Prelude (February – April 2022) (April – August 2022) (August – November 2022) (November 2022 – June 2023) (June 2023 – August 2023) (September 2023 – present) Aerial warfare Defense lines Foreign fighters Information war Naval warfare Legality Map Order of battle Peace negotiations Proposed no-fly zone Red lines Reparations Territorial control Women Prelude Reactions Disinformation Ukraine bioweapons conspiracy theory Ukraine and weapons of mass destruction 2021 Russia–United States summit 2021 Black Sea incident Belarus–European Union border crisis "On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians" Crimea Platform Zapad 2021 Ukraine cyberattacks Union Resolve 2022 Stanytsia Luhanska kindergarten bombing British–Polish–Ukrainian trilateral pact Evacuation of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Mobilization in Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR "Address concerning the events in Ukraine" "On conducting a special military operation" Background Dissolution of the Soviet Union 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine historical background Annexation of Crimea reactions War in Donbas 2022 timeline Minsk agreements humanitarian situation international recognition of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Putinism Foundations of Geopolitics Novorossiya Ruscism Russian irredentism Russian imperialism Foreign relations Russia–Ukraine Belarus–Ukraine Belarus–Russia Russia–United States Russia–NATO Ukraine–NATO enlargement of NATO eastward expansion controversy in Russia open door policy Military engagements Southern Ukraine Snake Island campaign Siege of Mariupol Battle of Kherson Battle of Melitopol Battle of Mykolaiv Battle of Enerhodar Battles of Voznesensk Battle of Huliaipole Battle of Orikhiv Battle of Davydiv Brid Kherson counteroffensive Liberation of Kherson Dnieper campaign Destruction of the Kakhovka Dam Eastern Ukraine Battle of Avdiivka Battle of Marinka Battle of Volnovakha Battle of Kharkiv Battle of Izium Battle of Rubizhne Battle of Popasna Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Battle of Kreminna Battle of the Siverskyi Donets Battle of Sievierodonetsk Battle of Toshkivka First Battle of Lyman Battle of Sviatohirsk Battle of Lysychansk Battle of Siversk Battle of Pisky Battle of Bakhmut Battle of Soledar Battle of Vuhledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Battle of Balakliia Battle of Kupiansk Second Battle of Lyman Luhansk Oblast campaign Northern Ukraine Battle of Antonov Airport Capture of Chernobyl Battle of Hlukhiv Battle of Ivankiv Battle of Kyiv Battle of Hostomel Battle of Vasylkiv Battle of Bucha Battle of Irpin Battle of Makariv Russian Kyiv convoy Battle of Moshchun Battle of Brovary Battle of Slavutych Battle of Konotop Battle of Sumy Battle of Trostianets Siege of Chernihiv Battle of Okhtyrka Battle of Lebedyn Northeastern Ukraine–Russia border skirmishes Airstrikes by city Bombing of Dnipro Bombing of Ivano-Frankivsk Bombing of Kharkiv Bombing of Kherson Bombing of Khmelnytskyi Bombing of Kryvyi Rih Bombing of Kyiv Bombing of Lviv Bombing of Mykolaiv Bombing of Odesa Bombing of Rivne Vinnytsia missile strikes Bombing of Zaporizhzhia Zhytomyr attacks Airstrikes on military targets Chuhuiv air base attack Millerovo air base attack Chornobaivka attacks Yavoriv military base attack Berdiansk port attack Sinking of the Moskva Desna barracks airstrike Attack on Nova Kakhovka Crimea attacks Novofedorivka explosions Drone attack on the Sevastopol Naval Base Missile strike on the Black Sea Fleet headquarters Dyagilevo and Engels air bases attacks Makiivka military quarters shelling Machulishchy air base attack Zarichne barracks airstrike [uk] Resistance Russian-occupied Ukraine Popular Resistance of Ukrai contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Chuhuiv_air_base_attack responseCode 3 200 