pcdgtowkpcxavgmsmsssncdgrkiodgcmtqzkfina length 6 599610 page 10043 County of England This article is about Cornwall in the United Kingdom. For other uses, see Cornwall (disambiguation). "Cornouailles" redirects here. Not to be confused with Cornouaille. Ceremonial county in England Cornwall Kernow (Cornish) Ceremonial county Part of Wheal Coates tin mine, St Michael's Mount, and ponies on Bodmin Moor Flag Coordinates: 50°24′N 4°54′W﻿ / ﻿50.400°N 4.900°W﻿ / 50.400; -4.900 Sovereign state United Kingdom Constituent country England Region South West England Established Ancient Time zone UTC±00:00 (Greenwich Mean Time) • Summer (DST) UTC+01:00 (British Summer Time) Members of Parliament 6 George Eustice (Con) Derek Thomas (Con) Steve Double (Con) Sheryll Murray (Con) Cherilyn Mackrory (Con) Scott Mann (Con) Police Devon and Cornwall Police Ceremonial county Lord Lieutenant Colonel Edward Bolitho High Sheriff Kate Holborow (2020–21) [1] Area 3,562 km2 (1,375 sq mi) • Ranked 12th of 48 Population (2021) 568,210 • Ranked 40th of 48 Density 160/km2 (410/sq mi) Ethnicity 95.7% White British, 4.3% Other[2] Unitary authority Council Cornwall Council Executive Conservative Admin HQ Lys Kernow, Truro Area 3,545 km2 (1,369 sq mi) • Ranked 4th of 296 Population 572,010 • Ranked 5th of 296 Density 161/km2 (420/sq mi) ISO 3166-2 GB-CON ONS code 00HE GSS code E06000052 ITL UKK30 Website cornwall.gov.uk Districts Districts of Cornwall Districts Cornwall (unitary) Isles of Scilly (sui generis unitary) Cornwall (/ˈkɔːrnwɔːl, -wəl/;[3] Cornish: Kernow [ˈkɛrnɔʊ]) is a ceremonial county in South West England. It is recognised as one of the Celtic nations and is the homeland of the Cornish people. The county is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the north and west, Devon to the east, and the English Channel to the south. The largest settlement is Falmouth, and the county town is Truro. The county is rural, with an area of 3,562 square kilometres (1,375 sq mi) and population of 568,210. The largest settlements are Falmouth (23,061), Newquay (20,342), St Austell (19,958), and Truro (18,766). Most of Cornwall forms a single unitary authority area, and the Isles of Scilly have a unique local authority. The Cornish nationalist movement disputes the constitutional status of Cornwall and seeks greater autonomy within the United Kingdom. Cornwall is the westernmost part of the South West Peninsula. Its coastline is characterised by steep cliffs and, to the south, several rias, including those at the mouths of the rivers Fal and Fowey. It includes the southernmost point on Great Britain, Lizard Point, and forms a large part of the Cornwall Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. The AONB also includes Bodmin Moor, an upland outcrop of the Cornubian batholith granite formation. The county contains many short rivers; the longest is the Tamar, which forms the border with Devon. Cornwall had a minor Roman presence, and later formed part of the Brittonic kingdom of Dumnonia. From the 7th century, the Britons in the South West increasingly came into conflict with the expanding Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Wessex, eventually being pushed west of the Tamar; by the Norman Conquest Cornwall was administered as part of England, though it retained its own culture. The remainder of the Middle Ages and Early Modern Period were relatively settled, with Cornwall developing its tin mining industry and becoming a duchy in 1337. During the Industrial Revolution, the tin and copper mines were expanded and then declined, with china clay extraction becoming a major industry. Railways were built, leading to a growth of tourism in the 20th century. The Cornish language became extinct as a living community language at the end of the 18th century, but is now being revived. Name[edit] "Cornweallas" shown on an early 19th-century map of "Saxon England" (and Wales) based on the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle. Cliffs at Land's End The modern English name Cornwall is a compound of two terms coming from two different language groups: Corn- originates from the Proto-Celtic "*karnu-" ("horn", presumed in reference to "headland"), and is cognate with the English word "horn" and Latin "cornu" (both deriving from the Proto-Indo-European *ker-). There may also have been an Iron Age group that occupied the Cornish peninsula known as the Cornovii (i.e. "people of the horn or headland").[4][5][6][7][a] -wall derives from the Old English exonym "wealh", meaning "foreigner", "slave" or "Brittonic-speaker" (as in Welsh).[9] In the Cornish language, Cornwall is Kernow which stems from the same Proto-Celtic root. History[edit] Main article: History of Cornwall For a chronological guide, see Timeline of Cornish history. Mên-an-Tol Prehistory, Roman and post-Roman periods[edit] See also: Dumnonia Humans reoccupied Britain after the last Ice Age. The area now known as Cornwall was first inhabited in the Palaeolithic and Mesolithic periods. It continued to be occupied by Neolithic and then by Bronze Age people. Cornwall in the Late Bronze Age formed part of a maritime trading-networked culture which researchers have dubbed the Atlantic Bronze Age system, and which extended over most of the areas of present-day Ireland, England, Wales, France, Spain, and Portugal.[10][11] During the British Iron Age, Cornwall, like all of Britain (modern England, Scotland, Wales, and the Isle of Man), was inhabited by a Celtic-speaking people known as the Britons with distinctive cultural relations to neighbouring Brittany. The Common Brittonic spoken at this time eventually developed into several distinct tongues, including Cornish, Welsh, Breton, Cumbric and Pictish.[12] The first written account of Cornwall comes from the 1st-century BC Sicilian Greek historian Diodorus Siculus, supposedly quoting or paraphrasing the 4th-century BCE geographer Pytheas, who had sailed to Britain: The inhabitants of that part of Britain called Belerion (or Land's End) from their intercourse with foreign merchants, are civilised in their manner of life. They prepare the tin, working very carefully the earth in which it is produced ... Here then the merchants buy the tin from the natives and carry it over to Gaul, and after travelling overland for about thirty days, they finally bring their loads on horses to the mouth of the Rhône.[13] Celtic tribes of Southern Britain The identity of these merchants is unknown. It has been theorised that they were Phoenicians, but there is no evidence for this.[14] Professor Timothy Champion, discussing Diodorus Siculus's comments on the tin trade, states that "Diodorus never actually says that the Phoenicians sailed to Cornwall. In fact, he says quite the opposite: the production of Cornish tin was in the hands of the natives of Cornwall, and its transport to the Mediterranean was organised by local merchants, by sea and then overland through France, passing through areas well outside Phoenician control."[15] Isotopic evidence suggests that tin ingots found off the coast of Haifa, Israel, may have from Cornwall.[16][17] Tin, required for the production of bronze, was a relatively rare and precious commodity in the Bronze Age – hence the interest shown in Devon and Cornwall's tin resources. (For further discussion of tin mining see the section on the economy below.) In the first four centuries AD, during the time of Roman dominance in Britain, Cornwall was rather remote from the main centres of Romanisation – the nearest being Isca Dumnoniorum, modern-day Exeter. However, the Roman road system extended into Cornwall with four significant Roman sites based on forts:[18] Tregear near Nanstallon was discovered in the early 1970s, two others were found at Restormel Castle, Lostwithiel in 2007, and a third fort near Calstock was also discovered early in 2007. In addition, a Roman-style villa was found at Magor Farm, Illogan in 1935. Ptolemy's Geographike Hyphegesis mentions four towns controlled by the Dumnonii,[19] three of which may have been in Cornwall.[20] However, after 410 AD, Cornwall appears to have reverted to rule by Romano-Celtic chieftains of the Cornovii tribe as part of the Brittonic kingdom of Dumnonia (which also included present-day Devonshire and the Scilly Isles), including the territory of one Marcus Cunomorus, with at least one significant power base at Tintagel in the early 6th century. "King" Mark of Cornwall is a semi-historical figure known from Welsh literature, from the Matter of Britain, and, in particular, from the later Norman-Breton medieval romance of Tristan and Yseult, where he appears as a close relative of King Arthur, himself usually considered to be born of the Cornish people in folklore traditions derived from Geoffrey of Monmouth's 12th-century Historia Regum Britanniae. Archaeology supports ecclesiastical, literary and legendary evidence for some relative economic stability and close cultural ties between the sub-Roman Westcountry, South Wales, Brittany, the Channel Islands, and Ireland through the fifth and sixth centuries.[21] In Cornwall, the arrival of Celtic saints such as Nectan, Paul Aurelian, Petroc, Piran, Samson and numerous others reinforced the preexisting Roman christianity.[22] Conflict with Wessex[edit] The Battle of Deorham in 577 saw the separation of Dumnonia (and therefore Cornwall) from Wales, following which the Dumnonii often came into conflict with the expanding English kingdom of Wessex. Centwine of Wessex "drove the Britons as far as the sea" in 682, and by 690 St Bonifice, then a Saxon boy, was attending an abbey in Exeter, which was in turn ruled by a Saxon abbot.[22][23] The Carmen Rhythmicum written by Aldhelm contains the earliest literary reference to Cornwall as distinct from Devon. Religious tensions between the Dumnonians (who celebrated celtic Christian traditions) and Wessex (who were Roman Catholic) are described in Aldhelm's letter to King Geraint. The Annales Cambriae report that in AD 722 the Britons of Cornwall won a battle at "Hehil".[24] It seems likely that the enemy the Cornish fought was a West  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 42 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Cornwall responseCode 3 200 