pcvkeiacxaxiqieisabetoxgrgmebmaieeqcoqhs length 6 205197 page 10010 Wikipedia project page "WP:GUIDELINES" redirects here. For the procedural policy on guidelines, see WP:GUIDELINE. This list of Wikipedia guidelines includes a summary of the most important guidelines that are currently in use. For a list of policies see List of policies. For a comprehensive but less detailed listing of policies and guidelines, see List of policies and guidelines. For categories of guidelines, see Category:Wikipedia guidelines and its subcategories. See Wikipedia:Policies and guidelines for a general overview of what policies and guidelines are about, how they are made, and why we have them. Shortcuts WP:LGL WP:GUIDELINES Wikipedia guidelines Guidelines list Policies list Behavioral Assume good faith Conflict of interest Courtesy vanishing Disruptive editing Don't bite the newcomers Don't disrupt to make a point Etiquette Gaming the system User pages Other behavioral guidelines WMF friendly space policy Discussions Talk page guidelines Signatures Content Citing sources External links Reliable sources medicine Fringe theories Non-free content Offensive material Don't copy long texts Don't create hoaxes Patent nonsense Other content guidelines Editing Article size Be bold Edit summary Understandability Other editing guidelines Organization Categories, lists, templates Categorization Disambiguation Style Manual of Style contents lists tables Deletion Deletion process Speedy keep Deletion guidelines for administrators Project content Project pages WikiProjects Templates User pages User boxes Shortcuts Subpages Other Naming conventions Notability v t e Because there are a large number of guideline pages (over 200), they are subcategorized (using the {{subcat guideline}} template) according to their purpose. Behavioral guidelines outline ways for editors to behave and interact with each other on talk pages and elsewhere at Wikipedia. Content guidelines apply only to the article namespace (unless otherwise specified in the guideline), and offer advice on identifying and including encyclopedic information in articles. Deletion guidelines explain criteria and procedures for deleting unwanted pages. Editing guidelines usually provide non-content advice about categorization, navigation or other how-to-edit advice. Naming conventions detail the correct ways to name articles on particular topics. Notability guidelines outline the criteria that a subject must meet to merit a Wikipedia article. Style guidelines contain extensive advice on writing style, formatting, grammar, and more. To search key words or terms on this page with your browser press Ctrl+F or F3, or ⌘ Command+F on a Mac. Behavioral See also: Category:Wikipedia behavioral guidelines Behavioral guidelines expand on the twelve conduct policies. Please read these first. Assume good faith Unless there is strong evidence to the contrary, assume that people who work on the project are trying to help it, not hurt it. Conflict of interest Do not use Wikipedia to promote yourself, your website, your mixtape, or your organization. Disruptive editing Participants with a pattern of edits that has the effect of disrupting progress toward improving an article or the fundamental project of building an encyclopedia may be blocked or banned indefinitely. Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point State your point. However, do not spam Wikipedia, disingenuously nominate articles for deletion, push rules to their limits, or otherwise create work for other people just to prove your point. Etiquette Editors have different views, perspectives, and backgrounds, sometimes varying widely. Treating others with respect is key to collaborating effectively in building an encyclopedia. Please do not bite the newcomers Many new contributors lack knowledge about Wikipedia policies. Nevertheless, always understand that new contributors are prospective "members" and are therefore our most valuable resource. Signatures Sign all of your posts on Wikipedia talk pages by typing ~~~~ to be accountable and to help others understand the conversation, but do not sign in articles. Talk page guidelines Talk pages are for polite discussion serving to improve the encyclopedia, and should not be used to express personal opinions on a subject. User pages You can use your user page to add a little information about yourself or to help you to use Wikipedia more effectively. However, remember that Wikipedia is not a blog, webspace provider, or social networking site. Other behavioural guidelines Appealing a block A block is not a punishment but a way to prevent disruption. Blocked users should understand the reasons for the block and convince administrators that they won't disrupt the project if they are unblocked. Canvassing When notifying other editors of discussions, keep the number of notifications small, keep the message text neutral, and don't preselect recipients according to their established opinions. Be open! Changing username How global renamers and stewards approach rename requests. Courtesy vanishing Courtesy vanishing means any user in good standing—upon leaving Wikipedia forever—may request renaming of their account; deletion or blanking of user pages; and possibly the deletion or blanking of discussions related to their conduct. Deceased Wikipedians guidelines An organized procedure for dealing with the accounts, userpages, and user rights of deceased Wikipedians as established by community consensus. Gaming the system Playing games with policies and guidelines in order to avoid the spirit of consensus, or thwart the intent and spirit of policy, is strictly forbidden. Linking to external harassment Links that contain privacy violations or malicious harassment should be avoided. Links in articles are a matter for sound editorial judgement. Responding to threats of harm Threats of harm (including self-harm) should be treated seriously and reported to the Wikimedia Foundation and to administrators. Reviewing pending changes Reviewing consists of determining whether a new revision is broadly acceptable for public view, and if not, editing the article to obtain an acceptable revision. Rollback Rollback is available to all administrators, and can be given to other users upon request, subject to the approval. It allows the last user's consecutive edits on a given page to be undone with a single mouse click. Spam blacklist The Spam blacklist is a control mechanism that prevents an external link from being added to an English Wikipedia page when the URL matches one listed at MediaWiki:Spam-blacklist. Content guide See also: Category:Wikipedia content guidelines Content guidelines expand on the eight content policies. Please read those first. Autobiography Avoid writing or editing an article about yourself, other than to correct unambiguous errors of fact. Citing sources and Scientific citation guidelines For writing and formatting references using different citation styles. Content forks A content fork is a piece of content (such as an inter-wiki object, a page, or a page section) that has the same scope as another piece of content that predated it, essentially covering the same topic. There are acceptable and unacceptable content forks. This guideline explains them all. External links External links should be kept minimal, meritable, and directly relevant to the article. Wikipedia is not an advertising opportunity. Fringe theories Care must be taken when writing content about fringe theories. Fringe theories should be covered only where their influence has been recognized by independent reliable sources; otherwise, they should be removed. Images Images must be relevant to the article that they appear in, properly referenced, and large enough to reveal relevant details without overwhelming the text. No disclaimers in articles Wikipedia contains spoilers, potentially objectionable material, and more. There is generally no need to warn readers of this. Non-free content and Non-free use rationale guideline Non-free content—including all copyrighted content—can only be used in specific cases, and must be employed judiciously. Its usage must be considered fair use under US copyright law, and comply with the non-free content criteria policy. Plagiarism Duplicating the work of others without proper attribution is unethical and can bring the project into disrepute. Give credit where it's due. Reliable sources and Reliable sources for medicine Information about identifying and using appropriate sources to comply with Wikipedia's Verifiability policy. Spoiler It is not acceptable to delete information on the basis that it might "spoil" a reader's experience of a narrative work. Wikipedia is not for things made up one day Resist the temptation to write about the new, great thing you or your friends just thought up. Other content guidelines Accuracy dispute Articles for which much of the factual accuracy is actively disputed, should have a {{Disputed}} warning place at the top, and are listed at Category:Accuracy disputes. Do not create hoaxes Do not deliberately add hoaxes, incorrect information, or unverifiable content to articles. Articles about notable hoaxes are acceptable. Do not include the full text of lengthy primary sources Quotes of any original texts being discussed should be relevant to the discussion (or illustrative of style), and should be kept to an appropriate length. Logos When using images of logos, care must be taken about copyright, trademark and editorial concerns. No 3D illustrations Don't use pictures which can only be correctly viewed with special 3D equipment. Non-US copyrights A work that is in the public domain in its home country can sometimes be under copyright in the United States, and so can not be used on Wikipedia, which is subject to US law. Offensive material Wikipedia articles may contain offensive words and images, but only for a good reason. Do not use disclaimers. Patent nonsense Guideline for dealing with nonsense text. Portal guidelines General guideli contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:List_of_guidelines responseCode 3 200 