pixiraxqhaqiikpovaheailabmkikefsheyerahg length 6 275891 page 10010 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 31 July 2023 00:00, 31 July 2023 (UTC) Gladys Ingle preparing to wing walk ... that Gladys Ingle was a wing walker who successfully moved from the wing of one airplane to the wing of another in mid-air (example pictured) more than 300 times? ... that the Fox television network successfully moved to strip an Iowa TV station of its affiliation? ... that Canadian football player Nicholas Dheilly tied his team's single-game sack record in his debut? ... that the Octavius V. Catto Memorial, unveiled in 2017, contains the first statue on Philadelphia public property of a specific African American? ... that Heba Saadia, the first Palestinian referee at a World Cup, only took up the profession when she noticed there were no women among a group of referees she saw training? ... that three months after Jon Stewart went on CNN's Crossfire and told the hosts that their show was "hurting America", CNN cancelled it and fired co-host Tucker Carlson? ... that the Poniatowski gems, 19th-century forgeries of ancient engraved gems, have themselves been copied by other forgers? ... that Wrinkle Five Star set an unratified 1 km (0.62 mi) world record of 18 minutes 8 seconds while running in custom shoes? 30 July 2023 00:00, 30 July 2023 (UTC) Genghis Khan ... that the Baljuna Covenant, an oath sworn by the future Genghis Khan (pictured) in summer 1203, encapsulated his ideals of social equality and personal choice? ... that Wallachian statesman Radu Golescu, who worked with Russian occupiers in 1806, was described as "immeasurably thirsty for wealth, and mean-spirited"? ... that the song "Money" by the Drums was certified gold by the RIAA over a decade after its initial release? ... that German cyclist Antonia Niedermaier won a stage on her first UCI Women's World Tour event, then crashed out of the event the next day? ... that a minute's silence was incorporated into the opening ceremony of the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup after a deadly shooting in a host city earlier that day? ... that Charles F. Gumm Jr. was the first aviator to score an aerial victory in the P-51 Mustang? ... that Hurricane Heather caused the normally dry Santa Cruz River to reach a 100-year flood stage? ... that 15 U.S.C. § 68 contains provisions to prevent pulling the wool over consumers' eyes? 29 July 2023 00:00, 29 July 2023 (UTC) Coronation of the Virgin by Pollaiuolo ... that the six saints in the Coronation of the Virgin (pictured) by Piero del Pollaiuolo are "poised between ecstasy and migraine"? ... that Israeli journalist Ayala Hasson is the first woman to head Channel 1's news division? ... that the notorious gambler Richard Albert Canfield stayed in the Elihu Akin House for a summer when he was thirteen years old? ... that New Zealand footballer Grace Wisnewski's bottom-ranked team upset the defending league champions when she scored what an A-League statistician called an "acrobatic" 99th-minute equalising goal? ... that the toroidal solenoid was the first fusion-power device to be patented? ... that leading Sacaba's largest drivers' union was José Mendieta's second choice of career, after teaching? ... that Melanie Golding's theory that changeling folklore was an attempt to explain postpartum psychosis inspired her horror novel Little Darlings? ... that a mural created to honor the late YouTuber Etika was added as a PokéStop in the mobile game Pokémon Go? 28 July 2023 00:00, 28 July 2023 (UTC) Luten Petrowsky ... that in 1973 Luten Petrowsky (pictured) played the saxophone in a quartet that made the first record with jazz musicians from both East and West Germany? ... that after Texaco accused the academic publishers suing it for copyright infringement of profiteering, the judge called it "an odd argument ... to be made by an oil company"? ... that after Luigi Galleani was deported from the United States, his followers retaliated by carrying out a series of bomb attacks against government officials? ... that Tropicana was reportedly the first building in Singapore to contain nightclubs, restaurants, and a theatre? ... that in August 2021 Sheika Scott became the youngest player to score in the Costa Rican Women's Premier Division, at just 14 years old? ... that the newly discovered red tigrina may already be extinct? ... that Emi Wong, the Hong Kong YouTuber with the most subscribers, used a carpet sweeper to do lunges and bottles of laundry detergent to do squats? ... that the 100 gecs tree was listed as a "place of worship" on Google Maps? 27 July 2023 00:00, 27 July 2023 (UTC) Artist's impression of HD 189733 b ... that the weather forecast for HD 189733 b (pictured) is "Westerly winds at 2000 m/s, with molten glass showers"? ... that Continental Army soldier Adamson Tannehill, later the president of the Pittsburgh branch of the Bank of the United States, was also convicted of extortion? ... that in a 2014 study viriditoxin was able to inhibit prostate cancer cells' growth in a lab environment? ... that Romanian musicologist Cornel Țăranu completed unfinished scores by George Enescu that Enescu did not wish to publish? ... that the Algoma Headwaters Provincial Park in Ontario has some of the oldest and best samples of old-growth white pine in the Algoma region? ... that after Spanish footballer Elene Lete had to leave Spain's under-20 football team with an injury in 2022, she returned to join the senior World Cup squad in 2023? ... that a political action committee paid $132,000 to former First Lady Melania Trump's fashion stylist for strategy consulting? ... that drummer Ivan Conti earned the nickname "Mamão" after destroying a papaya tree? 26 July 2023 00:00, 26 July 2023 (UTC) Holy Door, Santiago de Compostela ... that a year when the Feast of Saint James falls on a Sunday is designated a Jacobean Holy Year, and the Holy Door (pictured) at the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela is unblocked for all to enter? ... that the coat of arms of Santiago de Compostela features a chalice and host from the Galician arms, as well as a star and the tomb of Saint James? ... that the lower level of Santiago de Compostela's Plaza de la Quintana is called the Quintana de Mortos because it was once a cemetery? ... that during a Jacobean Holy Year, the Berenguela Tower's lantern is lit throughout the year to act as a lighthouse to guide pilgrims to the cathedral? ... that according to legend the tomb of James the Apostle was forgotten for eight centuries until it was found by Pelagius in the forest Libredón? ... that both the Way of the Lighthouses and the Way of Saint James end at Cape Finisterre in Galicia? ... that the Cross of Saint James is associated with the apostle's appearance at the mythical Battle of Clavijo? ... that Queen Lupa sent the disciples of James the Apostle to Mount Ilicino without telling them about a dragon? 25 July 2023 00:00, 25 July 2023 (UTC) Sofía Otero ... that the portrayal of a transgender child by Sofía Otero (pictured) made her the youngest actor to win the Silver Bear for Best Leading Performance? ... that Carly Rae Jepsen recorded over 65 songs for The Loneliest Time and created another album from its outtakes? ... that at age 14, footballer Lara Esponda was the youngest goalkeeper to debut in the top division of women's football in Argentina? ... that Tesla, Inc. is the only major U.S. automobile manufacturer with no unionized American plants? ... that Chief Rabbi of Madrid Yehuda Benaso contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 70 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2023/July responseCode 3 200 