pkikkmqexchgmmkefswelofomenookwikkwiukda length 6 258124 page 10038 Legislature of Spain Not to be confused with Cortes Españolas or Cortes Gerais. General Courts Cortes Generales 15th Cortes Generales Type Type Bicameral Houses Senate Congress of Deputies Leadership President of the Senate Pedro Manuel Rollán Ojeda (PP) since 17 August 2023 President of the Congress of Deputies Francesca Lluc Armengol Socias (PSOE) since 17 August 2023 Structure Seats 615 265 senators 350 deputies Senate political groups Government (91) PSOE (88) Confederal Left group (2)[a] Basque group (1)[b] Supported by (20) Republican group (11)[c] Basque group (5)[d] Confederal Left group (4)[e] Opposition (153) PP (143) Plural group (6)[f] Mixed group (4)[g] Congress of Deputies political groups Government (152) PSOE (121) Sumar (31)[h] Supported by (27) ERC (7) Junts (7) EH Bildu (6) EAJ/PNV (5) CCa (1) BNG (1) Opposition (171) PP (137) Vox (33) UPN (1) Elections First Senate election 15 June 1977 First Congress of Deputies election January–September 1810 Last Senate election 23 July 2023 Last Congress of Deputies election 23 July 2023 Meeting place Senate Palacio del Senado Plaza de la Marina Española Centro, Madrid Congress of Deputies Palacio de las Cortes Carrera de San Jerónimo Centro, Madrid Website cortesgenerales.es The Cortes Generales ( Spanish pronunciation: [ˈkoɾtes xeneˈɾales]; English: Spanish Parliament, lit. 'General Courts') are the bicameral legislative chambers of Spain, consisting of the Congress of Deputies (the lower house) and the Senate (the upper house). The Congress of Deputies meets in the Palacio de las Cortes. The Senate meets in the Palacio del Senado. Both are in Madrid. The Cortes are elected through universal, free, equal, direct and secret suffrage,[1] with the exception of some senatorial seats, which are elected indirectly by the legislatures of the autonomous communities. The Cortes Generales are composed of 615 members: 350 Deputies and 265 Senators. The members of the Cortes Generales serve four-year terms, and they are representatives of the Spanish people.[2] In both chambers, the seats are divided by constituencies that correspond with the fifty provinces of Spain, plus Ceuta and Melilla. However, each island or group of islands within the Canary and Balearic archipielagos forms a different constituency in the Senate.[3] As a parliamentary system, the Cortes confirm and dismiss the Prime Minister of Spain and their government; specifically, the candidate for Prime Minister has to be invested by the Congress with a majority of affirmative votes. The Congress can also dismiss the Prime Minister through a vote of no confidence. The Cortes also hold the power to enact a constitutional reform. The modern Cortes Generales were created by the 1978 Constitution of Spain, but the institution has a long history. History[edit] Further information: Spanish parliamentarism This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2020) (template removal help) Visigothic Kingdom[edit] Further information: Tribal council (Germanic), Visigothic Code, and Councils of Toledo The tribal councils organized under Germanic law in the Visigothic Kingdom had the power of appointing and confirming kings, as well as passing laws and judgment. The Visigothic Code compiled under kings Chindasuinth and Recceswinth in the mid-7th century placed the kings, Visigoths, and native Spanish under a single law and formed the basis of Spanish law through the medieval period. The Visigothic councils, however, gradually came to be completely dominated by the clergy under the leadership of the archbishop of Toledo; with ecclesiastical prerogatives completely secure, they then tended to allow royal edicts to come into effect without further ratification.[4] High Middle Ages (8th–12th centuries)[edit] Saint Isidoro Basilica, where the 1188 Cortes of León was held Further information: Spain in the Middle Ages The royal councils (Latin: curia regis) of the Iberian peninsula's various kingdoms came to be known as cortes (Castilian Spanish) or corts (Valencian Spanish). They began as advisory councils made up of the most powerful nobles and the feudal lords closest to the king. General councils were convened in 873, 1020, 1050, and 1063. The 1188 Cortes of León convened by Alfonso IX is sometimes taken to mark the beginning of parliamentary bodies in Western Europe[5][page needed] because it provided was the first to provide formal national representation of the free urban citizens alongside the clergy and hereditary nobility. Subsequently, larger and more inclusive Cortes occurred in the Principality of Catalonia in 1192, the Kingdom of Portugal in 1211, the Kingdom of Castile in 1250, the Kingdom of Aragon in 1274, the Kingdom of Valencia in 1283, and Kingdom of Navarre in 1300. The Leonese and Castilian Corteses were merged in 1258, after which it provided representation to Burgos, Toledo, León, Seville, Córdoba, Murcia, Jaén, Zamora, Segovia, Ávila, Salamanca, Cuenca, Toro, Valladolid, Soria, Madrid, Guadalajara, and (after 1492) Granada. Rise of the bourgeoisie (12th–15th centuries)[edit] Queen Maria de Molina presents her son Ferdinand IV to the 1295 Cortes of Valladolid. Further information: Reconquista During the Reconquista, the growth of trade and an urbanized middle class (Spanish: burguesía) expanded their importance at the various corteses.[citation needed] The king retained the ability to call and dismiss the Cortes but tended to exchange fueros, further grants of privileges and autonomy, to the residents of certain cities in exchange for lump sum payments to meet military and other obligations.[citation needed] (Modern Navarre preserves certain rights and privileges[which?] in its current statute of autonomy directly derived from these fueros.)[citation needed] In some cases, the Cortes was able to independently select agents to act as permanent advisors to the king between its sessions.[citation needed] Habsburg rule (16th–17th centuries)[edit] Map of the Iberian Union under Philip II in 1598, with the purviews of the empire's various corteses. Territory under the Council of Castile Territory under the Council of Aragon Territory under the Council of Portugal Territory under the Council of Italy Territory under the Council of the Indies Territory under the Council of Flanders A meeting of the Catalan Courts in the 15th century Further information: Habsburg Spain, Revolt of the Comuneros, Spanish Empire, and Siglo de Oro Beginning with the Catholic Monarchs Isabella and Ferdinand, monarchs' control over Spain's various kingdoms in personal union allowed them to curtail the power of the grandees and burghers. Queen Isabella initially had difficulty in securing funding for the voyages of Christopher Columbus in the 1490s but her grandson the Habsburg emperor Charles V (Charles I of Spain) was able to easily provide for Ferdinand Magellan's 1519 expedition and then to pointedly sell away all of Spain's rights to the Spice Islands (now Indonesia's Malukus) without any consultation with the Toledo Cortes in 1529. The 1520 Revolt of the Comuneros had intended to reverse this trend and provide a stronger role for the Cortes but was crushed by the Constable's royalist forces at the 1521 Battle of Villalar and then brutally suppressed. Reorganized, the corteses retained some power over the realm's finances—particularly in Aragon—but became limited to a consultative entity. By the reign of Philip II, the delegates of the Cortes of Castile were financially dependent on the Crown for their income.[6] The Imperial Cortes and its deputation (Spanish: Diputación General de Cortes) primarily concerned themselves with overseeing previous agreements and the collection of taxes in Castile and the larger empire; separate deputations oversaw similar work in Aragon and Navarre.[7] The corteses were able to regain some of their previous powers and influence during the 17th century, as repeated sovereign defaults reduced the monarchy to financial dependency and a series of deputies including the Count-Duke of Olivares oversaw most day-to-day government. Under the young and chronically ill Charles II, the Cortes of Castile was responsible for naming his mother Mariana regent. Bourbon rule (18th–19th centuries)[edit] Further information: War of Spanish Succession, Bourbon Spain, and Bourbon Reforms During the War of the Spanish Succession, the Bourbon king Philip V suppressed the corteses of Aragon and Valencia in 1707 and those of Catalonia and the Balearic Islands in 1714. Following the Peace of Utrecht, the 1716 Nueva Planta Decrees fully abolished the autonomy of the Crown of Aragon. Philip also acted to repeal or curtail most of the diverse grants of autonomy and privilege (fueros) throughout his kingdom. Navarre was finally merged during the 1833 territorial division of Spain.[8] Napoleonic Spain and the Three Liberal Years[edit] Further information: Peninsular War, Napoleonic Spain, Cortes of Cádiz, and Trienio Liberal Jurement of the Cortes of Cádiz With both the Bourbon monarchs Charles IV and Ferdinand VII having abdicated their throne and Napoleon Bonaparte having appointed his brother Joseph as the new king, a "Cortes of Cádiz" was convened that claimed sovereignty over Spain and operated as a government-in-exile. The Cortes was the first to act as a single representative body for the entire country and empire, although substitutes had to be chosen from among the people of Cádiz for many regions occupied by the French and unable to send their own delegates. Extremely liberal, the Constitution of 1812 enacted by the Cortes was immediately set aside by Ferdinand upon his restoration in 1814. His conservative policies led to a series of military coups that culminated in Col. Rafael del Riego forcing him to accept a more liberal constitution from 1820–1823, the contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Cortes_Generales responseCode 3 200 