pkrqnceiwmeivcjssqcehmesismawilakkvahsmo length 6 458113 page 10186 Highest judicial body in India Supreme Court of India भारत का उच्चतम न्यायालय Emblem of the Supreme Court of India[1][2][3] 28°37′20″N 77°14′23″E﻿ / ﻿28.622237°N 77.239584°E﻿ / 28.622237; 77.239584 Established October 1, 1937; 86 years ago (1937-10-01) Jurisdiction India Location Tilak Marg, New Delhi, Delhi: 110001, India Coordinates 28°37′20″N 77°14′23″E﻿ / ﻿28.622237°N 77.239584°E﻿ / 28.622237; 77.239584 Motto यतो धर्मस्ततो जय: (Sanskrit) IAST: Yato Dharmastato Jayah (transl. Where there is righteousness and moral duty (dharma), there is victory (jayah)) Composition method Collegium of the Supreme Court of India Authorized by Article 124 of the Constitution of India Judge term length Mandatory retirement at 65 years of age Number of positions 34 (33+1; present strength)[4] Website sci.gov.in Chief Justice of India Currently Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud Since 9 November 2022 This article is part of a series on Judiciary of India Law of India Administration Ministry of Law and Justice Department of Legal Affairs Legislative Department Department of Justice Law Commission of India Civil courts Supreme Court of India Chief Justice of India Judges of the supreme court High courts of India Chief justices of high courts Judges of high courts District courts of India Criminal courts Supreme Court of India Chief Justice of India Judges of the supreme court High courts of India Chief justices of high courts Judges of high courts Sessions courts Courts of judicial magistrate of first class Courts of judicial magistrate of second class Courts of executive magistrates Courts of divisional commissioners Courts of district magistrates Courts of sub-divisional magistrates Legal profession Bar Council of India Attorney General of India Solicitor General of India Additional solicitors general Advocates general Legal education Legal education in India Autonomous law schools in India List of law schools in India Others Alternative dispute resolution Lok Adalat Village courts Constitution of India Basic structure Directive principles Fundamental duties Fundamental rights Judicial review Indian Penal Code Civil Procedure Code Criminal Procedure Code Judicial activism in India National Judicial Appointments Commission Supreme Court Collegium v t e The Supreme Court of India (Hindi: भारत का उच्चतम न्यायालय, IAST: Bhārat Kā Uccatam Nyāyālaya) is the supreme judicial authority and the highest court of the Republic of India. It is the final court of appeal for all civil and criminal cases in India. It also has the power of judicial review. The Supreme Court, which consists of the Chief Justice of India and a maximum of fellow 33 judges, has extensive powers in the form of original, appellate and advisory jurisdictions.[5] As the apex constitutional court, it takes up appeals primarily against verdicts of the High Courts of various states and tribunals. As an advisory court, it hears matters which are referred by the President of India. Under judicial review, the court invalidates both normal laws as well as constitutional amendments that violate the Basic structure doctrine. It is required to safeguard the fundamental rights of citizens and settles legal disputes among the central government and various state governments. Its decisions are binding on other Indian courts as well as the union and state governments.[6] As per the Article 142 of the Constitution, the court is conferred with the inherent jurisdiction to pass any order deemed necessary in the interest of complete justice which becomes binding on the President to enforce.[7] The Supreme Court replaced the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council as the highest court of appeal since 28 January 1950, two days after India was declared a republic. With the Indian Constitution granting it far-reaching authority to initiate actions, exercise appellate authority over all other courts in the country with the power to review constitutional amendments, India's Supreme Court is regarded as one of the most powerful supreme courts in the world.[8][9] History[edit] In 1861, the Indian High Courts Act 1861 was enacted to create high courts for various provinces and abolish Supreme Courts at Calcutta, Madras and Bombay and also the sadar adalats in presidency towns in their respective regions. These new high courts had the distinction of being the highest courts for all cases till the creation of the Federal Court of India under the Government of India Act 1935. The Federal Court had the jurisdiction to solve disputes between provinces and federal states and hear appeals against judgement of the high courts. The first CJI of India was H. J. Kania.[6] The Supreme Court of India came into existence on 28 January 1950.[10] It replaced both the Federal Court of India and the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, which were then at the apex of the Indian court system. The first proceedings and inauguration, however, took place on 28 January 1950 at 9:45 am, when the judges took their seats; which is thus regarded as the official date of establishment.[11] The Supreme Court initially had its seat at the Chamber of Princes in the parliament building where the previous Federal Court of India sat from 1937 to 1950. The first Chief Justice of India was H. J. Kania. In 1958, the Supreme Court moved to its present premises.[10] Originally, the Constitution of India envisaged a supreme court with a chief justice and seven judges; leaving it to Parliament to increase this number. In its formative years, the Supreme Court met from 10 to 12 in the morning and then from 2 to 4 in the afternoon for 28 days per month. The emblem of the Supreme Court represents the Lion capital of Ashoka at Sarnath, with a topmost wheel featuring 32 spokes.[12] Jurisdiction and Powers of the Supreme Court[edit] The Supreme Court of India was constituted as per Chapter IV of Part V of the Constitution of India. The fourth Chapter of the Indian Constitution is " The Union Judiciary". Under this Chapter, the Supreme Court of India is vested with all Jurisdiction. As per Article 124, The Supreme Court of India had been Constituted and Established. As per Article 129, the Supreme Court is to be the Court of Record. As per Article 131, the Original Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is authorized. As per Articles 132, 133 and 134, Appellate Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is authorized. Under Article 135, the Federal Court's Power is given to the Supreme Court. Article 136 deals with the Special leave to Appeal to the Supreme Court. Article 137 explains the Review Power of the Supreme Court. Article 138 deals with the Enlargement of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. Article 139 deals with the Conferment on the Supreme Court of powers to issue certain writs. Article 140 gives Ancillary powers to the Supreme Court.[13] Article 141 of the Constitution gives the Law making power of the Supreme Court . The law declared by the Supreme Court is binding on all courts in the country.[14] Members of Collegium[edit] Presently, the Members of Collegium are: Chief Justice Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul Justice Sanjiv Khanna Justice Bhushan Ramkrishna Gavai Justice Surya Kant Court building architecture[edit] Central Wing of the court where the chief justice's courtroom is located The building is shaped to symbolize scales of justice with its centre-beam being the Central Wing of the building, consisting of the Chief Justice's court, the largest of the courtrooms, with two court halls on either side. The Right Wing of the structure has the Bar, consisting of rooms, the offices of the Attorney General of India and other law officers and the library of the court. The Left Wing has the offices of the court. In all, there are 15 courtrooms in the various wings of the building.[6][10] Left side of the Supreme Court building The foundation stone of the Supreme Court's building was laid on 29 October 1954 by Rajendra Prasad, the first President of India. The main block of the building has been built on a triangular plot of 17 acres and has been designed in an Indo-British style by the chief architect Ganesh Bhikaji Deolalikar, the first Indian to head the Central Public Works Department. It has a 27.6 m (90 ft 7 in) high dome and a spacious colonnaded verandah. The court moved into the building in 1958. In 1979, two new wings – the East Wing and the West Wing – were added to the complex. 1994 saw the last extension.[10] Mother and Child Sculpture[edit] Mother and Child Sculpture On 20 February 1980, a black bronze sculpture of 210 cm (6 ft 11 in) height was installed in the lawn of the Supreme Court. It portrays Mother India in the form of the figure of a lady, sheltering the young Republic of India represented by the symbol of a child, who is upholding the laws of land symbolically shown in the form of an open book. On the book, a balance beam is shown, which represents dispensation of equal justice to all. The sculpture was made by the renowned artist Chintamoni Kar. The sculpture is just behind the statue of Mahatma Gandhi.[citation needed] Seal[edit] The design of the Court's seal is reproduced from the wheel that appears on the Sarnath Lion capital of Ashoka with 24 spokes. The inscription in Sanskrit, "यतो धर्मस्ततो जयः" (IAST: Yato Dharmastato Jayaḥ,) means "whence justice (dharma), thence victory". It is also referred as the wheel of righteousness, encompassing truth, goodness and equity.[6] Constitution of the Court[edit] Registry[edit] The registry of the Supreme Court is headed by the Secretary-General, who is currently assisted by 10 registrars, several additional and deputy registrars,[15] etc. Article 146 of the Constitution deals with the appointments of officers and servants of the Supreme Court registry.[16][17] Supreme Court advocates[edit] Main article: Advocates-on-Record Supreme Court Rules, 2013 entitle only those advocates who are registered with the Supreme Court, called advocates-on-record to appear, contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Supreme_Court_of_India responseCode 3 200 