pohqhawoyggmcazgtcnkmkzihggahgqsuaoixogi length 6 304634 page 10242 "Burmese Army" redirects here. For other uses, see Burma Army (disambiguation). Myanmar Army တပ်မတော် (ကြည်း) (Burmese) lit. 'Armed Forces (Army)' Emblem of the Myanmar Army[a][1] Founded 1945; 78 years ago (1945) Country Myanmar (aka. Burma) Type Ground army Size 325,000 active personnel[2] Reserves: Border Guard Forces, BGFs (23 battalions) People's Militia Groups, PMGs (46 groups),[3] University Training Corps, UTC (5 corps)[4] Part of Myanmar Armed Forces Nickname(s) Tatmadaw Kyi Motto(s) ရဲသော်မသေ၊ သေသော်ငရဲမလား။ ရဲရဲတက်၊ ရဲရဲတိုက်၊ ရဲရဲချေမှုန်း။ Colours Olive green Light green Red Anniversaries 27 March 1945 Engagements Internal conflict in Myanmar 1960–1961 campaign at the China–Burma border Commanders Commander-in-Chief (Army) Vice-Senior General Soe Win Notable commanders Major General Aung San General Ne Win Senior General Than Shwe Vice-Senior General Maung Aye Insignia Flag of the Myanmar Army Shoulder sleeve of Office of the Commander-in-Chief of Army Shoulder sleeve infantry and light infantry former Flag (1948-1994) Military unit This article contains Burmese script. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Burmese script. The Myanmar Army (Burmese: တပ်မတော်(ကြည်း), pronounced [taʔmədɔ̀ tɕí]) is the largest branch of the Armed Forces (Tatmadaw) of Myanmar (Burma) and has the primary responsibility of conducting land-based military operations. The Myanmar Army maintains the second largest active force in Southeast Asia after the People's Army of Vietnam.[5] It has clashed against ethnic and political insurgents since its inception in 1948. The force is headed by the Commander-in-Chief of Myanmar Army, currently Vice-Senior General Soe Win, concurrently Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Services, with Senior General Min Aung Hlaing as the Commander-in-Chief of Defence Services. The highest rank in the Myanmar Army is Senior General, equivalent to field marshal in Western armies and is currently held by Min Aung Hlaing after being promoted from Vice-Senior General. In 2011, following a transition from military government to civilian parliamentary government, the Myanmar Army imposed a military draft on all citizens: all males from age 18 to 35 and all females from 18 to 27 years of age can be drafted into military service for two years as enlisted personnel in time of national emergency. The ages for professionals are up to 45 for men and 35 for women for three years service as commissioned and non-commissioned officers. The Government Gazette reported that 1.8 trillion kyat (about US$2 billion), or 23.6 percent of the 2011 budget was for military expenditures.[6] Brief history[edit] Burmese troops surveying the Burma–China border, circa April 1954, on the lookout for Chinese Nationalist troops who fled to Burma following their defeat in the Chinese Civil War. British and Japanese rule[edit] In the late 1930s, during the period of British rule, a few Myanmar organizations or parties formed an alliance named Burma's Htwet-Yet (Liberation) Group, one of them being Dobama Asiayone. Since most of the members were Communist, they wanted help from Chinese Communists; but when Tha-khin Aung San and a partner secretly went to China for help, they only met with a Japanese general and made an alliance with Japanese Army. In the early 1940s, Aung San and other 29 participants secretly went for the military training under Japanese Army and these 30 people are later known as the "30 Soldiers" in Myanmar history and can be regarded as the origin of the modern Myanmar Army. When the Japanese invasion of Burma was ready, the 30 Soldiers recruited Myanmar people in Thailand and founded Burmese Independence Army (BIA), which was the first phase of Myanmar Army. In 1942, BIA assisted Japanese Army in their conquest of Burma, which succeeded. After that, Japanese Army changed BIA to Burmese Defense Army (BDA), which was the second phase. In 1943, Japan officially declared Burma an independent nation, but the new Burmese government did not possess de facto rule over the country. While assisting the British Army in 1945, the Myanmar Army entered into its third phase, as the Patriotic Burmese Force (PBF), and the country became under British rule again. Afterwards, the structure of the army fell under British authority; hence, for those who were willing to serve the nation but not in that army, General Aung San organized the People's Comrades force. Post-Independence era[edit] Myanmar Army Honour Guards saluting the arrival of the Thai delegation in October 2010 At the time of Myanmar's independence in 1948, the Tatmadaw was weak, small and disunited. Cracks appeared along the lines of ethnic background, political affiliation, organisational origin and different services. Its unity and operational efficiency was further weakened by the interference of civilians and politicians in military affairs, and the perception gap between the staff officers and field commanders. The most serious problem was the tension between ethnic Karen Officers, coming from the British Burma Army and Bamar officers, coming from the Patriotic Burmese Forces (PBF).[citation needed] In accordance with the agreement reached at Kandy Conference in September 1945, the Tatmadaw was reorganised by incorporating the British Burma Army and the Patriotic Burmese Forces. The officer corps shared by ex-PBF officers and officers from British Burma Army and Army of Burma Reserve Organisation (ARBO). The colonial government also decided to form what were known as "Class Battalions" based on ethnicity. There were a total of 15 rifle battalions at the time of independence and four of them were made up of former members of PBF. All influential positions within the War Office and commands were manned with non-former PBF Officers. All services including military engineers, supply and transport, ordnance and medical services, Navy and Air Force were all commanded by former officers from ABRO and British Burma Army.[citation needed] Composition of the Tatmadaw in 1948 Battalion Composition No. 1 Burma Rifles Bamar (Burma Military Police) No. 2 Burma Rifles Karen majority + other Non-Bamar Nationalities [commanded by then Lieutenant Colonel Saw Chit Khin [Karen officer from British Burma Army]) No. 3 Burma Rifles Bamar / former members of Patriotic Burmese Forces No. 4 Burma Rifles Bamar / former members of Patriotic Burmese Force – Commanded by the then Lieutenant Colonel Ne Win No. 5 Burma Rifles Bamar / former members of Patriotic Burmese Force No. 6 Burma Rifles Bamar / former members of Patriotic Burmese Force No. 1 Karen Rifles Karen / former members of British Burma Army and ABRO No. 2 Karen Rifles Karen / former members of British Burma Army and ABRO No. 3 Karen Rifles Karen / former members of British Burma Army and ABRO No. 1 Kachin Rifles Kachin / former members of British Burma Army and ABRO No. 2 Kachin Rifles Kachin / former members of British Burma Army and ABRO No. 1 Chin Rifles Chin / former members of British Burma Army and ABRO No. 2 Chin Rifles Chin / former members of British Burma Army and ABRO No. 4 Burma Regiment Gurkha Chin Hill Battalion Chin Formation and structure[edit] The army has always been by far the largest service in Myanmar and has always received the lion's share of the defence budget.[7][8] It has played the most prominent part in Myanmar's struggle against the 40 or more insurgent groups since 1948 and acquired a reputation as a tough and resourceful military force. In 1981, it was described as 'probably the best army in Southeast Asia, apart from Vietnam's'.[9] The judgement was echoed in 1983, when another observer noted that "Myanmar's infantry is generally rated as one of the toughest, most combat seasoned in Southeast Asia".[10] In 1985, a foreign journalist with the rare experience of seeing Burmese soldiers in action against ethnic insurgents and narco-armies was "thoroughly impressed by their fighting skills, endurance and discipline".[11] Other observers during that period characterised the Myanmar Army as "the toughest, most effective light infantry jungle force now operating in Southeast Asia".[12] Even the Thai people, not known to praise the Burmese lightly, have described the Myanmar Army as "skilled in the art of jungle warfare".[13] Organisation[edit] The Myanmar Army had reached some 370,000 active troops of all ranks in 2000. There were 337 infantry battalions, including 266 light infantry battalions as of 2000. Although the Myanmar Army's organisational structure was based upon the regimental system, the basic manoeuvre and fighting unit is the battalion, known as Tat Yinn ((တပ်ရင်း)) in Burmese. This is composed of a headquarters unit; five rifle companies Tat Khwe ((တပ်ခွဲ)) with three rifle platoons Tat Su ((တပ်စု)) each; an administrative company with medical, transport, logistics, and signals units; a heavy weapons company including mortar, machine gun, and recoilless gun platoons. Each battalion is commanded by a lieutenant colonel Du Ti Ya Bo Hmu Gyi or Du Bo Hmu Gyi with a major (bo hmu) as second in command, with a total strength of 27 officers and 723 other ranks. Light infantry battalions in the Myanmar Army have much lower establishment strength of around 500; this often leads to these units being mistakenly identified by observers as under-strength infantry battalions. With its significantly increased personnel numbers, weaponry, and mobility, today's Tatmadaw Kyee (တပ်မတော်(ကြည်း)) is a formidable conventional defence force for the Union of Myanmar. Troops ready for combat duty have at least doubled since 1988. Logistics infrastructure and artillery fire support have been greatly increased. Its newly acquired military might was apparent in the Tatmadaw's dry season operations against Karen National Union (KNU) strongholds in Manerplaw and Kawmura. Most of the casualties at these battles were the result of intense and heavy bombardmen contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Myanmar_Army responseCode 3 200 