poioecditqjcpilsfebmfiwmiekirctifmdsygwo length 5 95556 page 6624 Person who makes custom clothing for women For other uses, see Dressmaker (disambiguation). "Seamstress" redirects here. For other uses, see The Seamstress. This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article provides insufficient context for those unfamiliar with the subject. Please help improve the article by providing more context for the reader. (December 2017) (template removal help) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Dressmaker" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2017) (template removal help) (template removal help) Pierre Balmain and the actress Ruth Ford, photographed by Carl Van Vechten, 1947 A dressmaker, also known as a seamstress, is a person who makes clothing for women, such as dresses, blouses, and evening gowns. Dressmakers were historically known as mantua-makers, and are also known as a modiste or fabrician.[1] Notable dressmakers[edit] Cristóbal Balenciaga Pierre Balmain Coco Chanel Christian Dior David Emanuel Norman Hartnell, royal dressmaker Elizabeth Keckley, modiste and confidante to Mary Todd Lincoln Jean Muir, fashion designer Madame Palmyre, a favorite designer and dressmaker of the empress of France Anna and Laura Tirocchi, Providence, Rhode Island Isabel Toledo Madeleine Vionnet R'Bonney Gabriel, fashion designer and beauty queen of Miss Universe 2022 Mak Tumang, fashion designer Michael Cinco, fashion designer Janet Walker, costumier and dress-making-bust inventor Charles Frederick Worth Related terms[edit] Jean-Baptiste Jules Trayer, Breton seamstresses in a shop (1854). Before the Industrial Revolution, a seamstress did hand sewing. "Dressmaker" denotes clothing made in the style of a dressmaker, frequently in the term "dressmaker details", which includes ruffles, frills, ribbon or braid trim. "Dressmaker" in this sense is contrasted to "tailored" and has fallen out of use since the rise of casual wear in the mid-20th century. Mantua-maker, in the 18th century a maker of mantuas, or in general a dressmaker. Modiste, a maker of fashionable clothing and accessories, with the implication that the articles made reflect the current Paris fashions. Fabrician, a person who is considered an expert in making modifications and alterations to fabrics and other articles of clothing. Sewing professional is the most general term for those who make their living by sewing, teaching, writing about sewing, or retailing sewing supplies. A sewing professional may work out of the home, a studio, or a retail shop and work part-time or full-time. This work may include any or all of the following sub-specialties: A custom clothier makes custom garments one at a time, to order, to meet an individual customer's needs and preferences. A custom dressmaker specializes in women's custom apparel, including day dresses, career wear, suits, evening or bridal wear, sportswear, or lingerie. A tailor/tailoress makes custom menswear-style jackets and the skirts or trousers that go with them for men or women. An alterations specialist or alterationist adjusts the fit of completed garments, usually ready-to-wear, or restyles them. Note that while all tailors can do alterations, by no means can all alterationists do tailoring. Designers choose combinations of line, proportion, color, and texture for intended garments. They may have no sewing or patternmaking skills and only sketch or conceptualize garments. Patternmakers flat draft the shapes and sizes of numerous pieces of a garment by hand using paper and measuring tools, computer using CAD software, or by draping muslin on a dress form. A wardrobe consultant or fashion advisor recommends styles and colors for a client. A seamstress is a woman who sews, especially one who earns a living by sewing. Before the Industrial Revolution, a seamstress did hand sewing, especially under the putting-out system. Older variants are seamster and sempstress. A costume designer is a person who designs costumes for a film, stage production, or television show. See also[edit] Bespoke Fashion design Haute couture Sewing Tailor References[edit] ^ Elster, Charles Harrington (2006). The Big Book of Beastly Mispronunciations: The Complete Opinionated Guide for the Careful Speaker. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. p. 112. ISBN 978-0-618-42315-6. Further reading[edit] Butterick Publishing Company: "The Art of Garment Cutting, Fitting and Making", 1894. Deckert, Barbara: Sewing for Plus Sizes: Design, Fit and Construction for Ample Apparel, Taunton, 1999, Appendix B: How to Find, Select, and Work With a Custom Clothier, pp. 142–143. Kirke, Betty: "Madeleine Vionnet", Chronicle Books, 1998. Picken, Mary Brooks: The Fashion Dictionary, Funk and Wagnalls, 1957. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Dressmaking. v t e Sewing Techniques Basting Cut Darning Ease Embellishment Fabric tube turning Floating canvas Gather Godet Gusset Heirloom sewing Shirring Stitches List of sewing stitches Backstitch Bar tack Blanket Blind stitch Buttonhole Catch stitch Chain stitch Coverstitch Cross-stitch Embroidery stitch Hemstitch Lockstitch Overlock Pad stitch Pick stitch Rantering Running Sashiko Stoating Tack Topstitch Zigzag Seams Neckline Felled seam Seam allowance Style line Notions Trim Bias tape Collar stay Elastic Galloon Grommet / Eyelet Interfacing Passementerie Piping Ruffle Rickrack Self-fabric Soutache Twill tape Wrights Closures Buckle Button Buttonhole Frog Hook-and-eye Hook-and-loop fastener Shank Snap Zipper Materials Grain / Bias Selvage Textile / Fabric Thread Yarn Tools Bobbin Dress form Needlecase Needle threader Pattern notcher Pin Pincushion Pinking shears Scissors Seam ripper Sewing gauge Sewing needle Stitching awl Tailor's ham Tape measure Thimble Tracing paper Tracing wheel Trades Suppliers Cloth merchant Draper Dressmaker Haberdasher Mercer Sewing occupations Silkwoman Tailor Sewing machine manufacturers List of brands and companies Barthélemy Thimonnier Bernina International Brother Industries Elias Howe Elna Feiyue Frister & Rossmann Janome Jones Sewing Machine Company Juki Merrow New Home Pfaff Sewmor Singer Tape edge machine Viking / Husqvarna White Pattern manufacturers Butterick Burda Clothkits McCall's Simplicity Media related to Sewing at Wikimedia Commons Clothing portal Glossary of terms Authority control databases: National Israel United States contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 44 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Dressmaker responseCode 3 200 