ponagsuahimqgswomkiigqhspcbmxacmocbqocia length 6 230443 page 11190 Set of lunisolar calendars used in SE Asia Translations of Buddhist calendar English Calendar of the Lord Buddha Sanskrit बौद्ध पंचांग Pali Sāsanā Sakaraj Bengali বৌদ্ধ বর্ষপঞ্জি (Baud'dha Borshoponjī) Burmese သာသနာ သက္ကရာဇ် (MLCTS: θàðənà θɛʔkəɹɪʔ) Chinese 佛历 / 佛曆 (Pinyin: Fó lì) Japanese 仏滅紀元 (Rōmaji: Butsumetsu kigen) Khmer ពុទ្ធសករាជ (UNGEGN: pŭtthôsâkâréach; ALA-LC: buddhasakarāj) Korean 불멸기원 佛滅紀元 (RR: bulmyeolgiwon) Lao ປະຕິທິນພຸດທະສາສະໜາ (patithin phudthasasana) Malay Kalender Buddhis (Indonesian) Takwim Buddha (Malaysian) Sinhala බුද්ධ වර්‍ෂ / සාසන වර්‍ෂ (Buddha Varsha / Sāsana Varsha) Tamil புத்த நாட்காட்டி (Putta nāṭkāṭṭi) Tagalog Kalendaryong buddhist (Baybayin: ᜃᜎᜒ︀ᜈ᜴ᜇᜍ᜴ᜌᜓ︀ᜅ᜴ ᜊᜓᜇ᜴ᜇ᜴ᜑᜒᜐ᜴ᜆ᜴) Thai พุทธศักราช (RTGS: phutthasakkarat) Vietnamese 佛曆 Phật lịch Glossary of Buddhism Part of a series on Buddhism Glossary Index Outline History Timeline The Buddha Pre-sectarian Buddhism Councils Silk Road transmission of Buddhism Decline in the Indian subcontinent Later Buddhists Buddhist modernism Dharma Concepts Four Noble Truths Noble Eightfold Path Dharma wheel Five Aggregates Impermanence Suffering Not-self Dependent Origination Middle Way Emptiness Morality Karma Rebirth Saṃsāra Cosmology Buddhist texts Buddhavacana Early Texts Tripiṭaka Mahayana Sutras Pāli Canon Sanskrit literature Tibetan canon Chinese canon Post-canon Practices Three Jewels Buddhist Paths to liberation Five precepts Perfections Meditation Philosophical reasoning Devotional practices Merit making Recollections Mindfulness Wisdom Sublime abidings Aids to Enlightenment Monasticism Lay life Buddhist chant Pilgrimage Vegetarianism Nirvāṇa Awakening Four Stages Arhat Pratyekabuddha Bodhisattva Buddha Traditions Theravāda Pāli Mahāyāna Hinayana Chinese Vajrayāna Tibetan Navayana Newar Buddhism by country Bhutan Brazil Cambodia China India Indonesia Japan Korea Laos Malaysia Mongolia Myanmar Russia Singapore US Sri Lanka Taiwan Thailand Tibet Vietnam Religion portal v t e The Buddhist calendar is a set of lunisolar calendars primarily used in Tibet, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, India, Sri Lanka, and Thailand as well as in Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam by Chinese populations for religious or official occasions. While the calendars share a common lineage, they also have minor but important variations such as intercalation schedules, month names and numbering, use of cycles, etc. In Thailand, the name Buddhist Era is a year numbering system shared by the traditional Thai lunar calendar and by the Thai solar calendar. The Southeast Asian lunisolar calendars are largely based on an older version of the Hindu calendar,[1] which uses the sidereal year as the solar year. One major difference is that the Southeast Asian systems, unlike their Indian cousins, do not use apparent reckoning to stay in sync with the sidereal year. Instead, they employ their versions of the Metonic cycle. However, since the Metonic cycle is not very accurate for sidereal years, the Southeast Asian calendar is slowly drifting out of sync with the sidereal, approximately one day every 100 years. Yet no coordinated structural reforms of the lunisolar calendar have been undertaken. Today, the traditional Buddhist lunisolar calendar is used mainly for Theravada Buddhist festivals. The Thai Buddhist Era, a renumbered Gregorian calendar, is the official calendar in Thailand. Structure[edit] Thailand's version of the lunisolar Buddhist calendar See also: Burmese calendar § Structure The calculation methodology of the current versions of Southeast Asian Buddhist calendars is largely based on that of the Burmese calendar, which was in use in various Southeast Asian kingdoms down to the 19th century under the names of Chula Sakarat and Jolak Sakaraj. The Burmese calendar in turn was based on the "original" Surya Siddhanta system of ancient India (believed to be Ardharatrika school).[1] One key difference with Indian systems is that the Burmese system has followed a variation of the Metonic cycle. It is unclear from where, when or how the Metonic system was introduced; hypotheses range from China to Europe.[note 1] The Burmese system, and indeed the Southeast Asian systems, thus use a "strange" combination of sidereal years from the Indian calendar in combination with the Metonic cycle better for tropical years.[2] Epochal date[edit] In all Theravada traditions, the calendar's epochal year 0 date was the day in which the Buddha attained parinibbāna. However, not all traditions agree on when it actually took place. In Burmese Buddhist tradition, it was 13 May 544 BCE (Tuesday, Full moon of Kason 148 Anjanasakaraj).[3] But in Thailand, it was 11 March 545 BCE, the date which the current Thai lunisolar and solar calendars use as the epochal date. Yet, the Thai calendars for some reason have fixed the difference between their Buddhist Era (BE) numbering and the Christian/Common Era (CE) numbering at 543,[4] which points to an epochal year of 544 BCE, not 545 BCE. In Myanmar, the difference between BE and CE can be 543 or 544 for CE dates, and 544 or 543 for BCE dates, depending on the month of the Buddhist Era (as the Buddhist calendar straddles the Gregorian calendar—currently[when?] from April to April). BE year Equivalent CE years Equivalent CE year (Thai solar) 0 544–543 BCE 1 543–542 BCE 543 1 BCE – 1 CE 0–1 CE 544 1–2 CE 1–2 CE 2483 1940–1941 1940 (Apr–Dec) 2484 1941–1942 1941 2565 2022–2023 2022 Month[edit] Types[edit] The calendar recognizes two types of months: synodic month and sidereal month.[5] The Synodic months are used to compose the years while the 27 lunar sidereal days (Sanskrit: nakshatra), alongside the 12 signs of the zodiac, are used for astrological calculations.[6] (The Burmese calendar also recognizes a solar month called Thuriya Matha, which is defined as 1/12th of a year.[7] But the solar month varies by the type of year such as tropical year, sidereal year, etc.) Waxing and waning[edit] The days of the month are counted in two halves, waxing and waning. The 15th of the waxing is the civil full moon day. The civil new moon day is the last day of the month (14th or 15th waning). Because of the inaccuracy of the calendrical calculation systems, the mean and real (true) New Moons rarely coincide. The mean New Moon often precedes the real New Moon.[5][6] Type Days Description Waxing 1 to 15 from New Moon to Full Moon Full Moon 15 Full Moon Waning 1 to 14 or 15 from Full Moon to New Moon New Moon 15 New Moon Number of days per month[edit] As the Synodic lunar month is approximately 29.5 days, the calendar uses alternating months of 29 and 30 days.[5] Pali Sanskrit Burmese Khmer Lao Sinhala Thai[8] No. of days Gregorian (approx.) Citta Caitra Tagu (တန်ခူး) Chêtr (ចេត្រ) ຈິຕ Bak (බක්) Chittra (จิตร) 29 March–April Vesākha Vaiśākha Kason (ကဆုန်) Pĭsakh (ពិសាខ) ວິສາຂະ Vesak (වෙසක්) Wisakha (วิสาข) 30 April–May Jeṭṭha Jyaiṣṭha Nayon (နယုန်) Chésth (ជេស្ឋ) ເຊດ Poson (පොසොන්) Chettha (เชษฐ) 29 [30] May–June Āsāḷha Āṣāḍha Waso (ဝါဆို) Asath (អាសាឍ) ອາສາລະຫະ Æsala (ඇසළ) Asanha (อาสาฬห) 30 June–July Sāvaṇa Śrāvaṇa Wagaung (ဝါခေါင်) Srapôn (ស្រាពណ៍) ສາວະນະ Nikini (නිකිණි) Sawana (สาวน) 29 July–August Poṭṭhapāda Bhādrapada or Proṣṭhapāda Tawthalin (တော်သလင်း) Phôtrôbât (ភទ្របទ) ພັດທະຣະບົດ Binara (බිනර) Phatthrabot (ภัทรบท) 30 August–September Assayuja Āśvina Thadingyut (သီတင်းကျွတ်) Âssŏch (អស្សុជ) ອັດສະວະຍຸດ Wap (වප්) Atsawayut (อัศวยุช) 29 September–October Kattika Kārtika Tazaungmon (တန်ဆောင်မုန်း) Kâtdĕk (កត្តិក) ກັດຕິກາ Il (ඉල්) Kattika (กัตติกา) 30 October–November Māgasira Mārgaśirṣa Nadaw (နတ်တော်) Mĭkôsĕr (មិគសិរ) ມິຄະສິນ Undhuvap (උඳුවප්) Mikkhasira (มิคสิร) 29 November–December Phussa Pauṣa Pyatho (ပြာသို) Bŏss (បុស្ស) ປຸສສ Dhuruthu (දුරුතු) Putsa (ปุสส) 30 December–January Māgha Māgha Tabodwe (တပို့တွဲ) Méakh (មាឃ) ມາດ Navam (නවම්) Makha (มาฆ) 29 January–February Phagguṇa Phālguna Tabaung (တပေါင်း) Phâlkŭn (ផល្គុន) ຜັກຄຸນ Mædhin (මැදින්) Phakkhun (ผัคคุณ) 30 February–March Month numbering[edit] Various regional versions of Chula Sakarat/Burmese calendar existed across various regions of mainland Southeast Asia. Unlike Burmese systems, Kengtung, Sipsongpanna, Lan Na, Lan Xang and Sukhothai systems refer to the months by numbers, not by names. This means reading ancient texts and inscriptions in Thailand requires constant vigilance, not just in making sure one is correctly operating for the correct region, but also for variations within regions itself when incursions cause a variation in practice.[9][10] Month Khmer, Lan Xang, Sukhothai and Old Burmese Kengtung, Sipsongpanna Chiang Mai Citta 5 6 7 Vesākha 6 7 8 Jeṭṭha 7 8 9 Āsāḷha 8 9 10 Sāvaṇa 9 10 11 Poṭṭhapāda 10 11 12 Assayuja 11 12 1 Kattika 12 1 2 Māgasira 1 2 3 Phussa 2 3 4 Māgha 3 4 5 Phagguṇa 4 5 6 Year[edit] The Buddhist calendar is a lunisolar calendar in which the months are based on lunar months and years are based on solar years. One of its primary objectives is to synchronize the lunar part with the solar part. The lunar months, normally twelve of them, consist alternately of 29 days and 30 days, such that a normal lunar year will contain 354 days, as opposed to the solar year of ~365.25 days. Therefore, some form of addition to the lunar year (of intercalation) is necessary. The overall basis for it is provided by cycles of 57 years. Eleven extra days are inserted in every 57 years, and seven extra months of 30 days are inserted in every 19 years (21 months in 57 years). This provides 20819 complete days to both calendars.[11] This 57-year cycle would provide a mean year of about 365.2456 days and a mean month of about 29.530496 days, if not corrected. As such, the calendar adds an intercalary month in leap years and sometimes also an intercalary day in great leap years. The intercalary month not only corrects the length of the year but also corrects the accumulating error of the month to extent of half a day. The average length of the month is further corrected by adding a day to Nayon at irregular inter contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Buddhist_calendar responseCode 3 200 