poxeaqjmkecemoigqehmyodanmdqnaqmtiueccwa length 6 275140 page 10005 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 31 December 2020 00:00, 31 December 2020 (UTC) Black-on-black ware pot from San Ildefonso Pueblo ... that black-on-black ware (example pictured) has been created by generations of Puebloan Native American ceramic artists in Northern New Mexico? ... that Soetran was nicknamed the "Clove Governor" after he obligated families in Papua to cultivate cloves? ... that Great American Bank, based in San Diego, was the first savings and loan association founded in Southern California? ... that the diaries of Lady Lacoste, a 19th-century philanthropist from Montreal, give historians a rare look into how emotions impacted the lives of women in her social class? ... that the Atlantic dancing shrimp is often associated with sea urchins or sea anemones? ... that pioneering lesbian columnist Deb Price's same-sex wedding announcement in The Washington Post was one of the first in a major national newspaper? ... that in a pre-game ceremony before the last game of the 1972 ice hockey Summit Series, the Canadian delegation presented a totem pole to the Soviet Union? ... that Scottsdale, Arizona, repealed its ban on dancing so that the Safari Hotel could open a nightclub? 30 December 2020 00:00, 30 December 2020 (UTC) Portrait of John Hunter Littler by Stephen Pearce ... that British general John Hunter Littler (depicted) had two horses shot from under him during the 29 December 1843 Battle of Maharajpore? ... that in the ballet West Side Story Suite, some of the dancers also sing? ... that Soedardjat Nataatmadja's instruction for parliamentary observers to wear traditional Sundanese clothing cost him his reelection? ... that the social study They Live on the Land was based on interviews with nearly the entire population of a rural Alabama town during the Great Depression? ... that Max Crabtree's "Big Daddy" was his brother Shirley? ... that the colonial bryozoan Beania magellanica, widely distributed in the Southern Hemisphere, has recently turned up in the Mediterranean Sea? ... that during the 1973 oil crisis, material scientist Henry Ehrenreich assessed photovoltaic cells and was an advisor to the U.S. Department of Energy? ... that a stereotypical True Pole is a Roman Catholic? 29 December 2020 00:00, 29 December 2020 (UTC) A ribosome translates mRNA into the encoded protein ... that modified mRNA (mRNA translation depicted) is a key technology in the Moderna and BioNTech/Pfizer vaccines against COVID-19? ... that Dick Kaegel began working as a full-time sportswriter while he was still in high school? ... that 50 years ago today, a military tribunal handed down six controversial death sentences to members of the Basque separatist group ETA? ... that William Gates LeDuc led a bison through the streets of New York City as part of the Minnesota exhibition at the 1853 World's Fair? ... that trench nephritis caused 35,000 British casualties during the First World War? ... that "Filipino Baby", a song about a sailor's love for a Filipino girl, described as "my treasure and my pet", was a top-five hit for three different artists in 1946? ... that Canadian modernist architect and urban planner Geoffrey Massey was part of a movement that prevented freeways from being built in Vancouver? ... that the first official resolution of the International Society for the History, Philosophy, and Social Studies of Biology was that they would never meet in a place with anti-sodomy laws? 28 December 2020 00:00, 28 December 2020 (UTC) Temple and Robinson in the staircase tap dance from The Little Colonel (1935) ... that Shirley Temple said of her relationship with her favorite dance partner Bill "Bojangles" Robinson (both pictured): "It was kind of a magic between us"? ... that the Wallace rule of nines to calculate the area of a burn was introduced by A. B. Wallace of Bangour General Hospital? ... that Wisconsin was the leading producer of dairy products in the United States from 1915 to 1993? ... that New Zealand mountaineer Marmaduke Dixon came within 100 ft (30 m) of the summit in his attempt to make the first ascent of the country's highest mountain, Aoraki / Mount Cook? ... that the life cycle of the Neptune-grass bryozoan is synchronized with the growth cycle of the seagrass on which it lives and the availability of the phytoplankton on which it feeds? ... that academic and philanthropist Guido Goldman convinced West German chancellor Willy Brandt to set up and endow the German Marshall Fund on the 25th anniversary of the Marshall Plan? ... that the Cistercian monastic order created an early competitor to Hindu–Arabic numerals with which they wrote years as a single character? ... that American football player Harry Field married a Hawaiian princess and is a 2021 finalist for induction into the Polynesian Football Hall of Fame? 27 December 2020 00:00, 27 December 2020 (UTC) The Mock Election (1827) by Benjamin Haydon ... that the former member of parliament Robert Stanton took part in a mock election (depicted) while in prison? ... that Psalm 148, calling heaven and earth to be glad, inspired the 17th-century Christmas carol "Erfreue dich, Himmel, erfreue dich, Erde", which Maria Luise Thurmair expanded with more details from the psalm in 1963? ... that the irrigation intake for which New Zealand farmer Marmaduke Dixon long campaigned is now a historic structure registered by Heritage New Zealand? ... that Hespress, the most popular news website in Morocco, initially relied on non-staff bloggers for its articles? ... that Sylvia Pengilly used an Amiga computer to integrate graphics with music and herself dancing? ... that although the Euclidean distance and the Pythagorean theorem are both ancient concepts, the Pythagorean formula for distance was not published until 1731? ... that Udyavara Madhava Acharya is credited with the modernisation of the theatre form Yakshagana? ... that while Ebenezer Joshua joined the government after the 1974 Vincentian general election, his wife Ivy became the leader of the opposition? 26 December 2020 00:00, 26 December 2020 (UTC) Jesus examining Melchior's gift in Mostaert's Adoration ... that the Mostaert Amsterdam Adoration (detail pictured) includes three scenes from the Old Testament and one from Christian legend? ... that One Voice at Christmas involves Aled Jones duetting Christmas carols with his younger self and the late Terry Wogan? ... that Giovanni Garbini's studies helped scholars interpret the biblical narrative in the larger context of the history of the ancient Near East? ... that the classic children's Christmas story The Littlest Angel was written in just three days? ... that in 1975, Finland's Minister of Education Marjatta Väänänen sent a petition to the Archbishop of Turku with almost 1 million signatures, advocating for the introduction of female priests? ... that O magnum mysterium, a motet for double choir by Morten Lauridsen, is a setting of a medieval Latin text for Christmas to music described as "ethereal sounds in imperturbable calmness"? ... that when Donald Trump owned the Plaza Hotel, he requested a cameo in Home Alone 2: Lost in New York in exchange for allowing the film crew to shoot in the lobby? ... that sending the real animals and personnel in The Twelve Days of Christmas resulted in a letter from G. Creep, solicitor? 25 December 2020 00:00, 25 December 2020 (UTC) Marley's Ghost by John Leech, 1843 ... that after a visit to a ragged school, Charles Dickens wrote A Christmas Carol, in which he uses the ghost of Jacob Marley (illustrated) as a mouthpiece for his own views on social responsibilit contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2020/December responseCode 3 200 