pqpokcpgykroemdknkkkpeaegkycdipsrooetopa length 5 75747 page 3112 "WP:FC" redirects here. For criteria for file deletions, see WP:FCSD. For the Wikipedia policy on fancruft, see WP:FANCRUFT. Portal covering featured content on Wikipedia Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Vital articles Featured content Good articles Indices A–Z index Reference Culture Geography Health History Human activities Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Featured content in Wikipedia This star symbolizes the featured content on Wikipedia. Featured content represents the best of Wikipedia, including articles, pictures, and other contributions that showcase excellent results of the collaborative efforts of Wikipedia. All featured content undergoes a thorough review process to ensure that it meets the highest standards in order to serve as the best example of Wikipedia's end goals. A small bronze star () in the top right corner of a desktop page indicates that the content is featured. This page gives links to all of Wikipedia's featured content. Shortcut WP:FC Featured content: ← Featured articles Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Newest featured content edit Articles WWJ-TV Phoolan Devi Walt Whitman's lectures on Abraham Lincoln Shostakovich v. Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corp. Nyctibatrachus major Nestor Makhno Albona-class minelayer Len Deighton Easy on Me Marie Sophie Hingst Adamson Tannehill Welcome to New York (song) Marshfield station Angel Reese Communication Topics Overview of Angeline Quinto Meghan Trainor's Billboard Hot 100 entries Overview of Kyla Meghan Trainor albums Overview of Angel Aquino Takin' It Back Animals in lagomorpha Overview of Angel Locsin Romanian record charts Title (album) Overview of Judy Ann Santos Solar System Anne Hathaway Preity Zinta Interstate 82 Lists Songs recorded by Bebe Rexha Platyrrhines Accolades received by How to Train Your Dragon (film) Accolades received by Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery Hot Soul Singles number ones of 1979 Presidents of New York University National Football League annual scoring leaders Gymnosperm families 2012 NBA draft Green Bay Packers presidents Outline of lichens Hot Soul Singles number ones of 1978 Baltimore Ravens seasons World Heritage Sites in Germany International goals scored by Emmanuel Adebayor Pictures The Mocking of Christ Happy Chandler Qurabiya The Rose of Persia poster Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa Mary White Ovington Tennessee warbler Myosotis scorpioides Mary Church Terrell Harry S. Truman holds a copy of the Chicago Daily Tribune Nuptse Kyelang Alpine marmot Che Guevara Epinephelus marginatus Content listings Types Vital articles Featured content Good articles Spoken articles Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Places, people and times Academic disciplines Anniversaries today Countries and territories Timelines decades, centuries, and millennia Indices A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Purge page cache contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_content responseCode 3 200 