pqqidoeejecqjmliqiigdormmimebsoidgkefszq length 6 240946 page 10023 Naval attacks on Japan by the Allies during World War II Allied naval bombardments of Japan Part of the Pacific War, World War II USS Indiana bombarding Kamaishi, Japan on 14 July 1945 Date July–August 1945 Location Four Japanese cities and several military facilities and towns Result Allied victory Belligerents United States United Kingdom New Zealand Japan Casualties and losses 32 (POWs killed in the bombardments of Kamaishi) Up to 1,739 killed Up to 1,497 wounded Damage to industrial facilities Damage to urban areas v t e Japan campaign Air raids Doolittle Raid Yawata Nagaoka Numazu Tokyo Meetinghouse Nagoya Osaka Kobe 1st Kure Sendai Fukui Fukuoka Kōfu Akita Aomori Gifu Hamamatsu Hiratsuka Utsunomiya Toyohashi Toyokawa Yokkaichi Okazaki Shizuoka Kumagaya Yokosuka 2nd Kure Hiroshima and Nagasaki Battles Mariana Islands Volcano and Ryukyu Islands Starvation Naval bombardments Sagami Bay South Sakhalin Kuril Islands Downfall (cancelled) Hokkaido (cancelled) v t e Pacific War Central Pacific Pearl Harbor Marshalls–Gilberts raids K Doolittle Raid Midway Gilberts and Marshalls Marianas and Palau Volcano and Ryukyu Truk Ocean Island Indian Ocean (1941–1945) Japanese merchant raids Andaman Islands Homfreyganj massacre Christmas Island 1st Indian Ocean Ceylon Bay of Bengal 2nd Indian Ocean Southeast Asia Indochina (1940) Franco-Thai War Thailand Malaya Hong Kong Singapore Indochina (1945) Malacca Strait Jurist Tiderace Zipper Strategic bombing (1944–45) Burma and India Burma (1941–42) Burma (1942–43) Burma and India (1944) Burma (1944–45) Southwest Pacific Dutch East Indies (1941–42) Philippines (1941–42) RY Solomon Islands Coral Sea Timor Australia New Guinea New Britain Philippines (1944–45) Borneo (1945) North America Ellwood Aleutian Islands Estevan Point Lighthouse Fort Stevens Lookout Air Raids Fire balloon bombs Project Hula PX Japan Air raids Tokyo Yokosuka Kure Hiroshima and Nagasaki Mariana Islands Volcano and Ryukyu Islands Starvation Naval bombardments Sagami Bay South Sakhalin Kuril Islands Shumshu Downfall Japanese surrender Manchuria and Northern Korea Kantokuen Manchuria (1945) Mutanchiang Chongjin Second Sino-Japanese War During the last weeks of World War II, warships of the United States Navy, the Royal Navy and the Royal New Zealand Navy bombarded industrial and military facilities in Japan. Most of these bombardments were conducted by battleships and cruisers, and caused heavy damage to several of the targeted factories, as well as nearby civilian areas. A major goal of the attacks was to provoke the Japanese military into committing some of its reserve force of aircraft into battle. However, the Japanese did not attempt to attack the Allied bombardment forces, and none of the involved warships suffered any damage. The major bombardments began on 14 and 15 July 1945, when US Navy warships attacked the cities of Kamaishi and Muroran. The next attack was made by a joint American and British force against the city of Hitachi during the night of 17/18 July. Groups of cruisers and destroyers subsequently shelled the Nojima Saki area on 18 July, and Shionomisaki on the night of 24/25 July. On 29 July, American and British warships attacked Hamamatsu, and on the night of 30/31 several American destroyers shelled Shimizu. The final bombardment took place on 9 August, when Kamaishi was attacked again by American, British and New Zealand warships. Two US Navy submarines conducted small-scale attacks during June and July 1945; one of the submarines also landed a small raiding party. The Allied naval bombardments disrupted industrial production in the cities targeted, and convinced many Japanese civilians that the war was lost. Up to 1,739 Japanese were killed in the attacks, and about 1,497 were wounded. The only Allied casualties were 32 Allied prisoners of war killed in the bombardments of Kamaishi. Background[edit] By mid-1945, during the last weeks of World War II, cities and industrial facilities in the Japanese home islands were under sustained attack from United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) B-29 Superfortress heavy bombers based in the Mariana Islands. Attacks by Allied submarines and surface ships had also cut most of the country's trade routes, and US Navy aircraft carrier task groups had raided locations in the home islands on several occasions. Shortages of fuel had confined most of the Imperial Japanese Navy's surviving ships to port and forced them and the Imperial Japanese Army Air Service to hold its air units in reserve against the Allied invasion that was expected late in the year.[1] Prior to the war, the Japanese military had assessed that coastal artillery was no longer suited to the country's circumstances. As a result, only a few strategic ports were protected by artillery capable of engaging enemy warships, and most of these guns were of relatively small caliber.[2] During the Pacific War, the US Navy's fast battleships had mainly been used to escort the groups of aircraft carriers that formed the United States Pacific Fleet's main striking force. They had also occasionally bombarded Japanese positions near the shore and had fought some actions with Japanese warships.[3][4] Allied naval commanders decided to use battleships to conduct a series of attacks against Japanese coastal cities in mid-1945. It was hoped that the Japanese military would respond to these bombardments by attacking the Allied forces with the aircraft that were being held in reserve to respond to the planned invasion of Japan, thereby exposing these aircraft to destruction by Allied fighter aircraft. However, the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters had anticipated that the Allies would conduct bombardments and other operations with this goal and decided to not attack naval forces operating off Japan. Instead, the aircraft would remain in reserve until Allied landing operations in the home islands began.[5] Bombardments[edit] First attack on Kamaishi[edit] On 1 July 1945, the United States Third Fleet sortied from Leyte Gulf in the Philippines under the command of Admiral William Halsey to attack the Japanese home islands. Halsey's plans included the use of battleships and cruisers to bombard military facilities and factories. To prepare for these attacks, US Navy submarines sailed into Japan's inshore waters to search for naval mines. USAAF B-29 Superfortress and B-24 Liberator aircraft also conducted photo reconnaissance flights over much of Japan in search of airfields and facilities which could be attacked by the Third Fleet.[6] Ships of Task Unit 34.8.1 approaching Kamaishi on 14 July 1945 The Third Fleet's main component, Task Force 38 (TF 38), began striking targets in Japan on 10 July under the command of Vice Admiral John S. McCain. On this day, aircraft flying from the Task Force's aircraft carriers attacked facilities around Tokyo. Task Force 38 sailed north, and on 14 July began raids on Hokkaido and northern Honshu. These areas were outside the range of the B-29 Superfortress bombers, and had at that point not been attacked in the war. The American aircraft met little opposition, and sank 11 warships and 20 merchant ships. A further eight warships and 21 merchant ships were damaged, and the carrier aviators claimed to have destroyed 25 Japanese aircraft.[7] The first Allied bombardment of a Japanese coastal town was conducted on 14 July in conjunction with the air attacks on Hokkaido and northern Honshu. A bombardment group commanded by Rear Admiral John F. Shafroth Jr. designated Task Unit 34.8.1 (TU 34.8.1) was detached from TF 38 to attack the ironworks at Kamaishi in northern Honshu. At the time the city had a population of 40,000 and the ironworks was among the largest in Japan.[8][9] However, due to shortages of coking coal and other raw materials, the ironworks was running at less than half its capacity.[10] Allied prisoners of war had been assigned to work at the Nippon Steel Company, and were housed in two camps in Kamaishi.[11] TU 34.8.1 comprised the battleships USS South Dakota, Indiana and Massachusetts as well as the heavy cruisers USS Quincy and Chicago and nine destroyers.[10] The bombardment group opened fire on the ironworks at 12:10 p.m. from a range of 29,000 yd (27,000 m). The ships then moved closer to the city, but did not cross the 100-fathom line as no minesweepers were available to clear the area of mines. The bombardment lasted for over two hours, during which time the force made six passes across the mouth of Kamaishi's harbor and fired 802 16-inch (406 mm) shells, 728 8-inch (203 mm) shells and 825 5-inch (127 mm) shells. While most of the shells landed within the grounds of the ironworks, the concussion from their explosions caused kitchen fires to break out across Kamaishi. The resulting smoke prevented US Navy aircraft from being able to support or spot for the warships, which continued to fire accurately on predetermined targets. No Japanese aircraft or coastal guns responded to this bombardment.[9][10] Allied aircraft photographed the ironworks following the attack, but photo interpreters underestimated the extent to which they had been damaged. This was one of the first times that the Americans had used aerial photography to assess damage from a naval bombardment, and the interpreters placed too much weight on the fact that none of the ironworks' buildings had been destroyed.[12] The Allies learned after the war that the ironworks had been extensively damaged and forced to cease production for a period. This resulted in a loss of the equivalent of four weeks of pig iron production and 2+1⁄2 months of coke production.[10] The attack destroyed 1460 houses in the city, and killed 424 civilians. A total of 28 Japanese naval personnel also perished when their Type 28 submarine chaser was sunk in Kamaishi harbor by shellfire.[13] Five Allied prisoners of war were killed by the bombardment.[14] Muroran[edit] Major Allied naval air attacks and bombardments of targets i contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 88 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Allied_naval_bombardments_of_Japan_during_World_War_II responseCode 3 200 