qaoqxmacpsgsioisnsmqmkckgeckeqlsyifgyeqa length 5 96914 page 6419 Political party in Myanmar Democratic Party for a New Society လူ့ဘောင်သစ်ဒီမိုကရက်တစ်ပါတီ Abbreviation DPNS Chairman Aung Moe Zaw[1] Secretary-General Ngwe Lin[1] Vice-Chairperson Myint Naing[1] Founded 14 October 1988 (1988-10-14) Headquarters No. 251, Third Floor, Seikkantha St. (Upper Block), Kyauktada Township, Yangon Membership 250,000 (self-claim)[2] Ideology Social democracy[2][3] Federalism[2] Political position Centre-left Regional affiliation Network of Social Democracy in Asia[4] Historical: National Council of the Union of Burma International affiliation Progressive Alliance[5] Colours Red and yellow Slogan "Peace and solidarity" Seats in the Amyotha Hluttaw 0 / 224 Seats in the Pyithu Hluttaw 0 / 440 Party flag Website www.dpnsburmese.org Politics of Myanmar Political parties Elections This article contains Burmese script. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Burmese script. The Democratic Party for a New Society (Burmese: လူ့ဘောင်သစ်ဒီမိုကရက်တစ်ပါတီ; abbr. DPNS) is a registered political party in Myanmar (Burma), founded in 1988 by Moe Thee Zun, the then Secretary General of the All Burma Students League (ABSL).[3] The party campaigns independently from other parties and is unaffiliated with the more influential National League for Democracy (NLD), despite sharing similar goals.[6] History[edit] The Democratic Party for a New Society (DPNS) was founded on 14 October 1988 by students and youth, in response to the military junta government's suppression of the 8888 Uprising and pro-democracy movements in Myanmar.[2] Its original organisation, the All Burma Students League (ABSL) was banned from participating in political reforms during the aftermath of the 8888 Uprising. After the military junta refused to recognise the results of the 1990 general election, the DPNS was declared illegal, and 1,500 of its members were arrested, with other pro-democracy movements and parties meeting a similar fate.[2] At the time of its founding, the DPNS was the second largest party, after the National League for Democracy (NLD), and attracted many young students, both from high schools and universities, many of whom were members of the ABSL.[2] Initially, the DPNS was used as the legal political wing of the All Burma Students' Union (ABSU), and worked with the National League for Democracy (NLD) and other pro-democracy parties, but has since unaffiliated themselves with the NLD and registered as its own independent party. Objectives[edit] The party's proclaimed objectives are as follows:[2] To achieve democracy To protect human rights To attain peace To establish a federal union To create a sustainable developed society References[edit] ^ a b c Min, Tayza. "Our People". www.dpns.org. ^ a b c d e f g "Democratic Party for a New Society (DPNS)". Facebook. ^ a b "Democratic Party for a New Society – Myanmar Now". www.myanmar-now.org. Thomson Reuters Foundation. Retrieved 3 May 2016. ^ "About". ^ "Participants – Progressive Alliance". progressive-alliance.info. Archived from the original on 2 March 2015. Retrieved 8 March 2015. ^ Min, Tayza. "Building an Opposition to the Opposition". www.dpns.org. Retrieved 3 May 2016. External links[edit] Official website of the DPNS (English) Official website of the DPNS (Burmese) DPNS Facebook page v t e Political parties in Myanmar House of Nationalities (224) National League for Democracy (138) Military (56) Union Solidarity and Development Party (7) Arakan National Party (4) Kayah State Democratic Party (3) Mon Unity Party (3) Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (2) Ta'ang National Party (2) New Democracy Party (Kachin) (1) Pa-O National Organisation (1) House of Representatives (440) National League for Democracy (258) Military (110) Union Solidarity and Development Party (26) Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (13) Arakan National Party (4) Pa-O National Organisation (3) Ta'ang National Party (3) Kayah State Democratic Party (2) Mon Unity Party (2) Arakan Front Party (1) Kachin State People's Party (1) Wa National Party (1) Zomi Congress for Democracy (1) State and Regional Hluttaws (880) National League for Democracy (501) Military (220) Union Solidarity and Development Party (38) Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (27) Arakan National Party (7) Pa-O National Organisation (7) Ta'ang National Party (7) Mon Unity Party (6) Kachin State People's Party (3) Kayah State Democratic Party (3) Arakan Front Party (2) Wa National Unity Party (2) Chin National League for Democracy (1) Kayin People's Party (1) Lahu National Development Party (1) Lisu National Development Party (1) Shan Nationalities Democratic Party (1) Zomi Congress for Democracy (1) Ethnic Affairs Ministers (29) National League for Democracy (23) Kayan National Party (1) Lahu National Development Party (1) Lisu National Development Party (1) Mon Unity Party (1) Unrepresented parties Akha National Development Party Arakan League for Democracy Arakan Liberation Party Chin National Party Chin Progressive Party Communist Party of Burma (banned) Confederate Farmers Party Democracy and Human Rights Party Democracy and Peace Party Democratic Party Democratic Party for a New Society Ethnic National Development Party Federal Union Party Inn National Development Party Karen National Party Kokang Democracy and Unity Party Myanmar Farmers Development Party National Democratic Force National Development Party National Unity Party Peace and Diversity Party People's Party of Myanmar Farmers and Workers Phalon-Sawaw Democratic Party Shan State Progress Party Tai-Leng Nationalities Development Party Union Democratic Party United Democratic Party (dissolved) Wa Democratic Party Political alliances Federal Democracy Alliance Nationalities Brotherhood Federation United Nationalities Alliance United Political Parties Alliance Political organisations 88 Generation Students Group United Nationalities Federal Council Notable historical parties Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League Burma Socialist Programme Party Communist Party of Arakan National United Front Rakhine Nationalities Development Party Thakins Politics of Myanmar Myanmar Portal Politics Portal List of political parties Authority control databases International VIAF National United States contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 68 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Democratic_Party_for_a_New_Society responseCode 3 200 