qatkpiqineqgwofcdcceissedexausracgamgscq page 10024 If I have left you a message: please answer on your talk page, linking to me ({{Ping|Hey man im josh}}), so that I will be notified. If you leave me a message: I will answer on my talk page, linking to your username, so that you will be notified. Please click here to leave me a new message. This is Hey man im josh's talk page, where you can send him messages and comments. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit; get help. Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Archives: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 This talk page is automatically archived by Lowercase sigmabot III. Any threads with no replies in 30 days may be automatically moved. Sections without timestamps are not archived. This user talk page might be watched by friendly talk page stalkers, which means that someone other than me might reply to your query. Their input is welcome and their help with messages that I cannot reply to quickly is appreciated. TFL notification[edit] Hi, Josh. I'm just posting to let you know that List of awards and honours received by Angela Merkel – a list that you have been heavily involved with – has been chosen to appear on the Main Page as Today's featured list for November 6. The TFL blurb can be seen here. If you have any thoughts on the selection, please post them on my talk page or at TFL talk. Regards, Giants2008 (Talk) 01:47, 14 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Please note that due to a TFL request for the original date, I've moved the appearance back two weeks to the next available date, November 20. Giants2008 (Talk) 21:45, 27 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] PRODs[edit] Hey, Josh, I've noticed that lately you've been giving some attention to reviewing PRODs as they inch towards their deletion time. A comment though, typically, as you might notice with AFDs, the admin deleting an article in the main space of the project removes red links that might appear after the article deletion by unlinking mentions of that article subject. What I do with PRODS is delete them by using Twinkle, selecting the CSD option and the PROD deletion rationale appears in a field in the text box. So, it looks like you are doing a speedy deletion but in the deletion rationale, it notes that this is a proposed deletion and supplies whatever deletion rationale was used by the article/file tagger. You might handle them this way already. But after deletion, when the article and any redirects are deleted, there is an option to undo any links. You can click on this link in the text box or, if you forget to, while you are still on the deleted page, you can use the Twinkle menu and select Unlink to undo them. I should add that there are a few editors who disagree with unlinking deleted articles. But, when I started handling PRODs, this was what I was told to do and I think it's also done by other admins who patrol PRODs like Explicit so I just thought I'd pass along the advice. You are starting off great as a new administrator and I just wanted to thank you for helping out with so many different areas of page deletion. Have a great weekend! Liz Read! Talk! 22:45, 20 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Hey @Liz, I'm sorry for the slow response, I've been away on vacation. Thank you for the feedback, I'll absolutely keep it in mind moving forward. Hey man im josh (talk) 22:51, 30 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Query[edit] Hello Josh, I once had my perms removed here because I wanted to gain more experience in WP:AfD and WP:AfC, the latter which I was laser focused on, lately I have been going through (mostly) closed AfD discussions and participating in few, to learn more about WP:N and obviously WP:RS. I have created multiple articles since the removal of my permissions and I'm happy to say I had no problems in doing so (as I'm also autoreviewed). I was wondering if you could check if I'm eligible for WP:NPR perm or if it's still early, I'm ready to tackle the NPP backlog Thank you. dxneo (talk) 16:27, 23 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Problem solved. dxneo (talk) 22:57, 24 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Sorry for not getting back to you @Dxneo, I've been away for a week on vacation. Glad to hear the problem has been solved. Hey man im josh (talk) 21:57, 30 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Moderator Tools newsletter - Issue #1[edit] Welcome to the inaugural Moderator Tools newsletter! We’ll aim to publish new issues whenever we have big new updates about the projects we’re working on. PageTriage[edit] PageTriage NewPagesFeed - October 2023 We’ve now wrapped up our work to support the English Wikipedia’s New Pages Patrol community by tackling some major technical debt in the PageTriage extension. The final project update gives an overview of all the work that we did over the past 6 months. Automoderator[edit] We’re currently working on a project called Automoderator, which will enable communities to automatically revert bad edits based on community-defined settings. We’re looking for input and feedback on our plans so far, and have a number of questions on topics we need patrollers and administrators to help us understand better. In addition to the overview and questions on the main project page, we now have two sub-pages with more specific information: Automoderator - model testing tool screenshot If you want to investigate Automoderator’s accuracy rate and check out how it would behave in practice, we’ve set up a testing process with data and scores so you can help us find new patterns we can take into consideration before Automoderator is deployed. The measurement plan is the first draft of our plan to measure whether Automoderator is achieving its goals and not having negative consequences. Want to propose some data for us to capture to help evaluate this project? This is the place to go! Other[edit] Our team has also been working to ensure that software we’re responsible for is updated to support temporary accounts. We’ve made changes to PageTriage, Nuke, and The Wikipedia Library. Although we have active engineering projects ongoing, we're always happy to chat about your community's content moderation tool needs - feel free to get in contact at Talk:Moderator Tools. Read past issues or sign up to this newsletter here. MediaWiki message delivery (talk) 11:21, 24 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Hey man[edit] Good day, hope you are doing well. Thank you so much for your great admin work and for granting me pending changes reviewer, I really appreciate it, as I have been able to start contributing more and helping the encyclopedia by reviewing changes that are pending. But, there isn't too much backlog on there as I would love to contribute more. Can I be granted the patroller right? I am already autopatrolled too. I know the policy says 90 days old account, which my account isn't up to currently (but close to), I would love to contribute more on administrative backlogs by patrolling new pages. I usually have special:NewPagesFeed as an open tab (lol, so that I can always get there faster). You can also check my draftification log at User:Vanderwaalforces/Draftify log. Would love to hear from you. Many thanks again! Vanderwaalforces (talk) 01:16, 28 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Hey @Vanderwaalforces. I've been away for a bit over a week and I have quite a bit of catching up to do, both IRL and on Wikipedia. I encourage you to apply at WP:PERM/NPR, as I don't think I have the time to evaluate whether I should give you the perm or not. For future reference, permissions are best requested at WP:PERM anyways. Hey man im josh (talk) 00:19, 31 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Thanks so much:) Vanderwaalforces (talk) 05:33, 31 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] PS. I very much appreciate your interest in contributing and I wish you the best of luck on your request @Vanderwaalforces. I always encourage new reviewers to start in their area of expertise / niche of interest by checking out WP:NPPSORT. The process can seem daunting at first, so it's best to start somewhere where you're already comfortable. We also have a Discord server if that's your thing where you can get some help along the way or ask for a second opinion. Hey man im josh (talk) 11:53, 31 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Hey man im josh Thank you so much for your kind words, I will go ahead and request at the WP:PERM as soon as possible, so that I can assist in the AfC November drive if possible. Also, I will have your advice in mind. Vanderwaalforces (talk) 13:57, 31 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Baton[edit] I know you just got back from vacation, and sorry to pile on, but you have a baton to pass to 0xDeadbeef. Clyde [trout needed] 21:03, 30 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Hey @ClydeFranklin, I am aware. Thank you for your concern though. Hey man im josh (talk) 21:57, 30 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Meant to reply to this, but I took care of it shortly after this reply as part of my catching up on things process. Hey man im josh (talk) 11:53, 31 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] November Articles for creation backlog drive[edit] Hello Hey man im josh: WikiProject Articles for creation is holding a month long Backlog Drive! The goal of this drive is to reduce the backlog of unreviewed drafts to less than 2 months outstanding reviews from the current 4+ months. Bonus points will be given for reviewing drafts that have been waiting more than 30 days. The drive is running from 1 November 2023 through 30 November 2023. You may find Category:AfC pending submissions by age or other categories and sorting helpful. Barnstars will be given out as awards at the end of the drive. There is a backlog of over 0 pages, so start reviewing drafts. We're looking forward to your help! MediaWiki message delivery (talk) 13:24, 31 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Western tulku[edit] Hi Josh, thanks for reviewing the Western tulku page. I was wondering if you could take a look here at the AfD si contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/User_talk:Hey_man_im_josh responseCode 3 200 