qayilcuoroygvqimwixivmjcuozmiegalqbgxcfe length 6 483675 page 10023 Branch of philosophy concerning right and wrong conduct For other uses, see Ethics (disambiguation). Part of a series on Ethics Outline Category Index Schools Absolutism Confucianism Deontology Epicureanism Error theory Intuitionism Moralism Nihilism Non-cognitivism Particularism Perspectivism Projectivism Realism Anti-realism Relativism Rousseauism Stoicism Subjectivism Taoism Transcognitivism Universalism Utilitarianism Concepts Authority Autonomy Common sense Compassion Conscience Consent Culture of life Dignity Double standard Duty Etiquette Eudaimonia Family values Fidelity Free will Good and evil Good Evil Problem of evil Happiness Honour Ideal Intellectual humility Is–ought problem Justice Liberty Loyalty Moral agency Moral courage Moral hierarchy Moral imperative Morality Immorality Norms Rights Self-discipline Social responsibility Suffering Stewardship Sympathy Theodicy Trust Values Intrinsic Vices Virtues Cardinal Vow Domains Applied Axiological Buddhist Christian Descriptive Care Evolutionary Existentialist Feminist Islamic Jewish Meta Normative Population Pragmatic Role Secular Situational Suffering-focused Virtue Ethicists Aquinas Aristotle Augustine Bentham Cicero Confucius Foot Hegel Hume Kant Kierkegaard Laozi MacIntyre Mackie Moore Nietzsche Nussbaum Parfit Plato Rawls Schopenhauer Sidgwick Singer Spinoza Taylor Works After Virtue Animal Liberation Beyond Good and Evil Critique of Practical Reason Either/Or Elements of the Philosophy of Right Ethics (Moore) Ethics (Spinoza) Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals The Moral Landscape Nicomachean Ethics On the Genealogy of Morality The Philosophy of Freedom Practical Ethics Principia Ethica A Theory of Justice The Theory of Moral Sentiments A Treatise of Human Nature Utilitarianism Related Casuistry Ethics in religion History of ethics Ideology Moral psychology Social philosophy This is a subseries on philosophy. In order to explore related topics, please visit navigation. v t e Part of a series on Philosophy Left to right: Plato, Kant, Nietzsche, Buddha, Confucius, Avicenna Plato Kant Nietzsche The Buddha Confucius Avicenna Philosophy portal Contents Outline Lists Glossary History Categories Disambiguation Philosophies By period Ancient Ancient Egyptian Ancient Greek Medieval Renaissance Modern Contemporary Analytic Continental By region African Egypt Ethiopia South Africa Eastern philosophy Chinese Indian Indonesia Japan Korea Vietnam Indigenous American Aztec philosophy Middle Eastern philosophy Iranian Western American British French German Italian Russian By religion Buddhist Confucian Christian Hindu Islamic Jain Jewish Taoist Branches Epistemology Ethics Logic Metaphysics Aesthetics Axiology Culture Education History Language Law Linguistics Metaethics Metaphilosophy Methodology Music Ontology Mind Phenomenology Politics Psychology Religion Science Society Schools Behaviorism Empiricism Feminism Humanism Idealism Materialism Nihilism Pragmatism Rationalism Realism Anti- Stoicism Philosophers Aesthetic philosophers Epistemologists Ethicists Logicians Metaphysicians Philosophers of mind Social and political philosophers Women in philosophy v t e Drawing of the trolley problem original premises and its five variants. The trolley problem is an ethical dilemma that shows the difference between deontological and consequentialist ethical systems. Ethics or moral philosophy is a branch[1] of philosophy that "involves systematizing, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong behavior".[2] The field of ethics, along with aesthetics, concerns matters of value; these fields comprise the branch of philosophy called axiology.[3] Ethics seeks to resolve questions of human morality by defining concepts such as good and evil, right and wrong, virtue and vice, justice and crime.[4] As a field of intellectual inquiry, moral philosophy is related to the fields of moral psychology, descriptive ethics, and value theory. Three major areas of study within ethics recognized today are:[2] Meta-ethics, concerning the theoretical meaning and reference of moral propositions, and how their truth values (if any) can be determined; Normative ethics, concerning the practical means of determining a moral course of action; Applied ethics, concerning what a person is obligated (or permitted) to do in a specific situation or a particular domain of action.[2] Definition [edit] The English word ethics is derived from the Ancient Greek word ēthicas (ἠθικός), meaning "relating to one's character", which itself comes from the root word êthos (ἦθος) meaning "character, moral nature".[5] This word was transferred into Latin as ethica and then into French as éthique, from which it was transferred into English. Rushworth Kidder states that "standard definitions of ethics have typically included such phrases as 'the science of the ideal human character' or 'the science of moral duty'".[6] Richard William Paul and Linda Elder define ethics as "a set of concepts and principles that guide us in determining what behavior helps or harms sentient creatures".[7] The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy states that the word "ethics" is "commonly used interchangeably with 'morality' ... and sometimes it is used more narrowly to mean the moral principles of a particular tradition, group or individual."[8] Paul and Elder state that most people confuse ethics with behaving in accordance with social conventions, religious beliefs, the law, and do not treat ethics as a stand-alone concept.[9] The word ethics in English refers to several things.[10] It can refer to philosophical ethics or moral philosophy—a project that attempts to use reason to answer various kinds of ethical questions. As the English moral philosopher Bernard Williams writes, attempting to explain moral philosophy: "What makes an inquiry a philosophical one is reflective generality and a style of argument that claims to be rationally persuasive."[11] Williams describes the content of this area of inquiry as addressing the very broad question, "how one should live".[12] Ethics can also refer to a common human ability to think about ethical problems that is not particular to philosophy. As bioethicist Larry Churchill has written: "Ethics, understood as the capacity to think critically about moral values and direct our actions in terms of such values, is a generic human capacity."[13] Meta-ethics[edit] Main article: Meta-ethics Meta-ethics is the branch of philosophical ethics that asks how we understand, know about, and what we mean when we talk about what is right and what is wrong.[14] An ethical question pertaining to a particular practical situation—such as, "Should I eat this particular piece of chocolate cake?"—cannot be a meta-ethical question (rather, this is an applied ethical question). A meta-ethical question is abstract and relates to a wide range of more specific practical questions. For example, "Is it ever possible to have a secure knowledge of what is right and wrong?" is a meta-ethical question.[citation needed] Meta-ethics has always accompanied philosophical ethics. For example, Aristotle implies that less precise knowledge is possible in ethics than in other spheres of inquiry, and he regards ethical knowledge as depending upon habit and acculturation in a way that makes it distinctive from other kinds of knowledge. Meta-ethics is also important in G.E. Moore's Principia Ethica from 1903. In it he first wrote about what he called the naturalistic fallacy. Moore was seen to reject naturalism in ethics, in his open-question argument. This made thinkers look again at second order questions about ethics. Earlier, the Scottish philosopher David Hume had put forward a similar view on the difference between facts and values.[citation needed] Studies of how we know in ethics divide into cognitivism and non-cognitivism; these, respectively, take descriptive and non-descriptive approaches to moral goodness or value. Non-cognitivism is the view that when we judge something as morally right or wrong, this is neither true nor false. We may, for example, be only expressing our emotional feelings about these things.[15] Cognitivism can then be seen as the claim that when we talk about right and wrong, we are talking about matters of fact. The ontology of ethics is about value-bearing things or properties, that is, the kind of things or stuff referred to by ethical propositions. Non-descriptivists and non-cognitivists believe that ethics does not need a specific ontology since ethical propositions do not refer. This is known as an anti-realist position. Realists, on the other hand, must explain what kind of entities, properties or states are relevant for ethics, how they have value, and why they guide and motivate our actions.[16] Moral skepticism[edit] Main article: Moral skepticism Moral skepticism (or moral scepticism) is a class of metaethical theories in which all members entail that no one has any moral knowledge. Many moral skeptics also make the stronger, modal claim that moral knowledge is impossible. Moral skepticism is particularly against moral realism which holds the view that there are knowable and objective moral truths.[citation needed] Some proponents of moral skepticism include Pyrrho, Aenesidemus, Sextus Empiricus, David Hume, Max Stirner, Friedrich Nietzsche, and J.L. Mackie.[citation needed] Moral skepticism is divided into three sub-classes: Moral error theory (or moral nihilism). Epistemological moral skepticism. Non-cognitivism.[17] All of these three theories share the same conclusions, which are as follows: (a) we are never justified in believing that moral claims (claims of the form "state of affairs x is good," "action y is morally obligatory," etc.) are true and, even more so (b) we never know that any moral claim is true. However, each method arrives at (a) and (b) by different routes. Moral error theory holds that we do not know that any moral claim is true because (i) all moral claims contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 40 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Ethics responseCode 3 200 