qcfsaopsqakgzeamnafgekaerayqfadqwcbcgibk length 6 269183 page 10019 Process of monitoring and controlling the movement of a craft or vehicle from one place to another For other uses, see Navigation (disambiguation). A navigation system on an oil tanker Navigation[1] is a field of study that focuses on the process of monitoring and controlling the movement of a craft or vehicle from one place to another.[2] The field of navigation includes four general categories: land navigation,[3] marine navigation, aeronautic navigation, and space navigation.[1] It is also the term of art used for the specialized knowledge used by navigators to perform navigation tasks. All navigational techniques involve locating the navigator's position compared to known locations or patterns. Navigation, in a broader sense, can refer to any skill or study that involves the determination of position and direction.[1] In this sense, navigation includes orienteering and pedestrian navigation.[1] History[edit] Further information: History of navigation See also: History of geodesy In the European medieval period, navigation was considered part of the set of seven mechanical arts, none of which were used for long voyages across open ocean. Polynesian navigation is probably the earliest form of open-ocean navigation; it was based on memory and observation recorded on scientific instruments like the Marshall Islands Stick Charts of Ocean Swells. Early Pacific Polynesians used the motion of stars, weather, the position of certain wildlife species, or the size of waves to find the path from one island to another. Maritime navigation using scientific instruments such as the mariner's astrolabe first occurred in the Mediterranean during the Middle Ages. Although land astrolabes were invented in the Hellenistic period and existed in classical antiquity and the Islamic Golden Age, the oldest record of a sea astrolabe is that of Spanish astronomer Ramon Llull dating from 1295.[4] The perfecting of this navigation instrument is attributed to Portuguese navigators during early Portuguese discoveries in the Age of Discovery.[5][6] The earliest known description of how to make and use a sea astrolabe comes from Spanish cosmographer Martín Cortés de Albacar's Arte de Navegar (The Art of Navigation) published in 1551,[7] based on the principle of the archipendulum used in constructing the Egyptian pyramids. Open-seas navigation using the astrolabe and the compass started during the Age of Discovery in the 15th century. The Portuguese began systematically exploring the Atlantic coast of Africa from 1418, under the sponsorship of Prince Henry. In 1488 Bartolomeu Dias reached the Indian Ocean by this route. In 1492 the Spanish monarchs funded Christopher Columbus's expedition to sail west to reach the Indies by crossing the Atlantic, which resulted in the Discovery of the Americas. In 1498, a Portuguese expedition commanded by Vasco da Gama reached India by sailing around Africa, opening up direct trade with Asia. Soon, the Portuguese sailed further eastward, to the Spice Islands in 1512, landing in China one year later. The first circumnavigation of the earth was completed in 1522 with the Magellan-Elcano expedition, a Spanish voyage of discovery led by Portuguese explorer Ferdinand Magellan and completed by Spanish navigator Juan Sebastián Elcano after the former's death in the Philippines in 1521. The fleet of seven ships sailed from Sanlúcar de Barrameda in Southern Spain in 1519, crossed the Atlantic Ocean and after several stopovers rounded the southern tip of South America. Some ships were lost, but the remaining fleet continued across the Pacific making a number of discoveries including Guam and the Philippines. By then, only two galleons were left from the original seven. The Victoria led by Elcano sailed across the Indian Ocean and north along the coast of Africa, to finally arrive in Spain in 1522, three years after its departure. The Trinidad sailed east from the Philippines, trying to find a maritime path back to the Americas, but was unsuccessful. The eastward route across the Pacific, also known as the tornaviaje (return trip) was only discovered forty years later, when Spanish cosmographer Andrés de Urdaneta sailed from the Philippines, north to parallel 39°, and hit the eastward Kuroshio Current which took its galleon across the Pacific. He arrived in Acapulco on October 8, 1565. Etymology[edit] The term stems from the 1530s, from Latin navigationem (nom. navigatio), from navigatus, pp. of navigare "to sail, sail over, go by sea, steer a ship," from navis "ship" and the root of agere "to drive".[8] Basic concepts[edit] Map of Earth Longitude (λ) Lines of longitude appear vertical with varying curvature in this projection, but are actually halves of great ellipses, with identical radii at a given latitude. Latitude (φ) Lines of latitude appear horizontal with varying curvature in this projection; but are actually circular with different radii. All locations with a given latitude are collectively referred to as a circle of latitude. The equator divides the planet into a Northern Hemisphere and a Southern Hemisphere, and has a latitude of 0°. v t e Latitude[edit] Further information: Latitude Roughly, the latitude of a place on Earth is its angular distance north or south of the equator.[9] Latitude is usually expressed in degrees (marked with °) ranging from 0° at the Equator to 90° at the North and South poles.[9] The latitude of the North Pole is 90° N, and the latitude of the South Pole is 90° S.[9] Mariners calculated latitude in the Northern Hemisphere by sighting the pole star (Polaris) with a sextant and using sight reduction tables to correct for height of eye and atmospheric refraction. The height of Polaris in degrees above the horizon is the latitude of the observer, within a degree or so. Longitude[edit] Further information: Longitude Similar to latitude, the longitude of a place on Earth is the angular distance east or west of the prime meridian or Greenwich meridian.[9] Longitude is usually expressed in degrees (marked with °) ranging from 0° at the Greenwich meridian to 180° east and west. Sydney, for example, has a longitude of about 151° east. New York City has a longitude of 74° west. For most of history, mariners struggled to determine longitude. Longitude can be calculated if the precise time of a sighting is known. Lacking that, one can use a sextant to take a lunar distance (also called the lunar observation, or "lunar" for short) that, with a nautical almanac, can be used to calculate the time at zero longitude (see Greenwich Mean Time).[10] Reliable marine chronometers were unavailable until the late 18th century and not affordable until the 19th century.[11][12][13] For about a hundred years, from about 1767 until about 1850,[14] mariners lacking a chronometer used the method of lunar distances to determine Greenwich time to find their longitude. A mariner with a chronometer could check its reading using a lunar determination of Greenwich time.[11][15] Loxodrome[edit] Further information: Rhumb line In navigation, a rhumb line (or loxodrome) is a line crossing all meridians of longitude at the same angle, i.e. a path derived from a defined initial bearing. That is, upon taking an initial bearing, one proceeds along the same bearing, without changing the direction as measured relative to true or magnetic north. Methods of navigation[edit] Most modern navigation relies primarily on positions determined electronically by receivers collecting information from satellites. Most other modern techniques rely on finding intersecting lines of position or LOP.[16] A line of position can refer to two different things, either a line on a chart or a line between the observer and an object in real life.[17] A bearing is a measure of the direction to an object.[17] If the navigator measures the direction in real life, the angle can then be drawn on a nautical chart and the navigator will be somewhere on that bearing line on the chart.[17] In addition to bearings, navigators also often measure distances to objects.[16] On the chart, a distance produces a circle or arc of position.[16] Circles, arcs, and hyperbolae of positions are often referred to as lines of position. If the navigator draws two lines of position, and they intersect he must be at that position.[16] A fix is the intersection of two or more LOPs.[16] If only one line of position is available, this may be evaluated against the dead reckoning position to establish an estimated position.[18] Lines (or circles) of position can be derived from a variety of sources: celestial observation (a short segment of the circle of equal altitude, but generally represented as a line), terrestrial range (natural or man made) when two charted points are observed to be in line with each other,[19] compass bearing to a charted object, radar range to a charted object, on certain coastlines, a depth sounding from echo sounder or hand lead line. There are some methods seldom used today such as "dipping a light" to calculate the geographic range from observer to lighthouse. Methods of navigation have changed through history.[20] Each new method has enhanced the mariner's ability to complete his voyage.[20] One of the most important judgments the navigator must make is the best method to use.[20] Some types of navigation are depicted in the table. Illustration Description Application Traditional navigation methods include: In marine navigation, dead reckoning or DR, in which one advances a prior position using the ship's course and speed. The new position is called a DR position. It is generally accepted that only course and speed determine the DR position. Correcting the DR position for leeway, current effects, and steering error result in an estimated position or EP. An inertial navigator develops an extremely accurate EP.[20] Used at all times. In marine navigation, pilotage involves navigating in restricted/coastal waters with frequent determination of positi contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 44 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Navigation responseCode 3 200 