qckamslajopiiekgxisozigkwgegbguaskxouaii length 6 897718 page 10071 U.S. state This article is about the U.S. state. For other uses, see Maryland (disambiguation). State in the United States Maryland State State of Maryland Flag Seal Nicknames: "Old Line State", "Free State", "Little America",[1] "America in Miniature"[2] Mottoes: "Fatti maschii, parole femine" (English: "Strong Deeds, Gentle Words")[3] The Latin text encircling the seal: Scuto bonæ voluntatis tuæ coronasti nos ("With Favor Wilt Thou Compass Us as with a Shield") Psalm 5:12[4] Map of the United States with Maryland highlighted Country United States Before statehood Province of Maryland Admitted to the Union April 28, 1788 (7th) Capital Annapolis Largest city Baltimore Largest county or equivalent Montgomery Largest metro and urban areas Washington–Baltimore (combined) Baltimore (metro and urban) Government • Governor Wes Moore (D) • Lieutenant Governor Aruna Miller (D) Legislature General Assembly • Upper house Senate • Lower house House of Delegates Judiciary Supreme Court of Maryland U.S. senators Ben Cardin (D) Chris Van Hollen (D) U.S. House delegation 7 Democrats 1 Republican (list) Area • Total 12,407 sq mi (32,133 km2) • Land 9,776 sq mi (25,314 km2) • Water 2,633 sq mi (6,819 km2) 21% • Rank 42nd Dimensions • Length 250 mi (400 km) • Width 100 mi (200 km) Elevation 350 ft (110 m) Highest elevation (Hoye-Crest[5][a]) 3,360 ft (1,024 m) Lowest elevation (Atlantic Ocean[5]) 0 ft (0 m) Population (2020[6]) • Total 6,177,224 • Rank 18th • Density 632/sq mi (244/km2) • Rank 5th • Median household income $87,063 • Income rank 1st Demonym Marylander Language • Official language None (English, de facto) Time zone UTC−05:00 (Eastern) • Summer (DST) UTC−04:00 (EDT) USPS abbreviation MD ISO 3166 code US-MD Traditional abbreviation Md. Latitude 37° 53′ N to 39° 43′ N Longitude 75° 03′ W to 79° 29′ W Website www.maryland.gov State symbols of Maryland List of state symbols Flag of Maryland Seal of Maryland Coat of arms of Maryland Song None. Formerly: "Maryland, My Maryland" by James Ryder Randall (1861), (adopted 1939, repealed 2021) Living insignia Bird Baltimore oriole Cat breed Calico cat Crustacean Blue crab Dog breed Chesapeake Bay Retriever Fish Rock fish Flower Black-eyed Susan Horse breed Thoroughbred Insect Baltimore checkerspot butterfly Reptile Diamondback terrapin Tree White oak Inanimate insignia Beverage Milk Dance Square dance Dinosaur Astrodon johnstoni Food Smith Island cake Fossil Ecphora gardnerae gardnerae Gemstone Patuxent River stone Ship Skipjack Sport Jousting Lacrosse State route marker State quarter Released in 2000 Lists of United States state symbols Maryland (US: /ˈmɛrɪlənd/ ⓘ MERR-il-ənd)[b] is a state in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States.[8][9] It borders Virginia, West Virginia, and Washington, D.C., to its south and west; Pennsylvania to its north; and Delaware and the Atlantic Ocean to its east. With a total land area of 12,407 square miles (32,130 km2), Maryland is the eighth-smallest state by land area, and its population of 6,177,224 ranks it the 18th-most populous state and the fifth-most densely populated. Baltimore[10] is the largest city in the state, and the capital is Annapolis. The western portion of the state contains numerous stretches of the Appalachian Mountains, while the central portion is primarily composed of the Piedmont. The eastern side of the state makes up the Chesapeake Bay, sharing the border with Delaware, and the southeastern side borders the Atlantic Ocean. Among its occasional nicknames are Old Line State, the Free State, and the Chesapeake Bay State. It is named after Henrietta Maria, the French-born queen of England, Scotland, and Ireland, who was known then in England as Mary.[11][12] Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the 16th century, Maryland was inhabited by several groups of Native Americans – mostly by Algonquian peoples and, to a lesser degree, Iroquoian and Siouan.[13] As one of the original Thirteen Colonies of England, Maryland was founded by George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore, a Catholic convert[14][15] who sought to provide a religious haven for Catholics persecuted in England.[16] In 1632, Charles I of England granted Lord Baltimore a colonial charter, naming the colony after his wife, Henrietta Maria.[17] Unlike the Pilgrims and Puritans, who rejected Catholicism in their settlements, Lord Baltimore envisioned a colony where people of different religious sects would coexist under the principle of toleration.[16] Accordingly, in 1649 the Maryland General Assembly passed an Act Concerning Religion, which enshrined this principle by penalizing anyone who "reproached" a fellow Marylander based on religious affiliation.[18] Nevertheless, religious strife was common in the early years, and Catholics remained a minority, albeit in greater numbers than in any other English colony. Maryland's early settlements and population centers clustered around rivers and other waterways that empty into the Chesapeake Bay. Its economy was heavily plantation-based and centered mostly on the cultivation of tobacco. Demand for cheap labor from Maryland colonists led to the importation of numerous indentured servants and enslaved Africans. In 1760, Maryland's current boundaries took form following the settlement of a long-running border dispute with Pennsylvania. Maryland was an active participant in the events leading up to the American Revolution, and by 1776, its delegates signed the Declaration of Independence. Many of its citizens subsequently played key political and military roles in the war. In 1790, the state ceded land for the establishment of the U.S. capital of Washington, D.C. Although then a slave state, Maryland remained in the Union during the American Civil War, its strategic location giving it a significant role in the conflict. After the Civil War, Maryland took part in the Industrial Revolution, driven by its seaports, railroad networks, and mass immigration from Europe. Since the 1940s, the state's population has grown rapidly, to approximately six million residents, and it is among the most densely populated U.S. states. As of 2015[update], Maryland had the highest median household income of any state, owing in large part to its proximity to Washington, D.C., and a highly diversified economy spanning manufacturing, retail services, public administration, real estate, higher education, information technology, defense contracting, health care, and biotechnology.[19] Maryland is one of the most multicultural states in the country; it is one of the six states where non-Whites compose a majority of the population, with the fifth-highest percentage of African Americans, and high numbers of residents born in Africa, Asia, Central America, and the Caribbean. The state's central role in U.S. history is reflected by its hosting of some of the highest numbers of historic landmarks per capita. Sixteen of Maryland's twenty-three counties, as well as the city of Baltimore, border the tidal waters of the Chesapeake Bay estuary and its many tributaries,[20][10] which combined total more than 4,000 miles of shoreline. Although one of the smallest states in the U.S., it features a variety of climates and topographical features that have earned it the moniker of America in Miniature.[21] In a similar vein, Maryland's geography, culture, and history combine elements of the Mid-Atlantic, Northeastern, and Southern regions of the country. History[edit] Main articles: History of Maryland and Native American tribes in Maryland 17th century[edit] Maryland's first colonial settlement[edit] Main article: Province of Maryland George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore (1579–1632), sought a charter from King Charles I for the territory between Massachusetts to the north and Virginia to the immediate south.[22] After Baltimore died in April 1632, the charter was granted to his son, Cecilius Calvert, 2nd Baron Baltimore (1605–1675), on June 20, 1632. Officially, the new "Maryland Colony" was named in honor of Henrietta Maria of France, wife of Charles I.[23] Lord Baltimore initially proposed the name "Crescentia", the land of growth or increase, but "the King proposed Terra Mariae [Mary Land], which was concluded on and Inserted in the bill."[16] The original capital of Maryland was St. Mary's City, on the north shore of the Potomac River, and the county surrounding it, the first erected/created in the province,[24] was first called Augusta Carolina, after the King, and later named St. Mary's County.[25] Lord Baltimore's first settlers arrived in the new colony in March 1634, with his younger brother the Honorable Leonard Calvert (1606–1647), as first provincial Governor of Maryland. They made their first permanent settlement at St. Mary's City in what is now St. Mary's County. They purchased the site from the paramount chief of the region, who was eager to establish trade. St. Mary's became the first capital of Maryland, and remained so for 60 years until 1695. More settlers soon followed. Their tobacco crops were successful and quickly made the new colony profitable. However, given the incidence of malaria, yellow fever, and typhoid, life expectancy in Maryland was about 10 years less than in New England.[26] Persecution of Catholics[edit] See also: Plundering Time Maryland was founded to provide a haven for England's Roman Catholic minority.[27] Although Maryland was the most heavily Catholic of the English mainland colonies, the religion was still in the minority, consisting of less than 10% of the total population.[28] In 1642, a number of Puritans left Virginia for Maryland and founded Providence (now called Annapolis) on the western shore of the upper Chesapeake Bay.[29] A dispute with traders from Virginia over Kent Island in the Chesapeake led to armed conflict. In 1644, William Claiborne, a Puritan, seized Kent Island while his associate, the pro-Parliament Puritan Richard Ingle, took over St. Mary's.[30] Both used religion as a tool to gai contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 42 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Maryland responseCode 3 200 