qgegzikohansqsoedorqqasqligesgigvqqgacte length 6 196589 page 10011 Copyright v t e Noticeboards Wikipedia's centralized discussion, request, and help venues. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard. For a related set of forums which do not function as noticeboards see formal review processes. General Administrators Main Incidents Bots Bureaucrats Centralized discussion Closure requests Education Interface admins Main Page errors Open proxies VRT Oversight User permissions Articles and content Biographies of living persons Copyrights Questions on media Problems Current events Dispute resolution External links Fringe theories Neutral point of view Original research Pending changes Reliable sources Resource requests Scalable vector graphics Spam Blacklist Whitelist Style Titleblacklist Translation Page handling History merges Mergers Splits Moves Protection Importation XfD Articles Redirects Categories Templates Files Miscellany Undeletion User conduct Conflict of interest Contributor copyright Edit warring and 3RR Sanctions Personal restrictions General sanctions Contentious topics Sockpuppets Usernames (Requests for comment) Vandalism Other Arbitration Committee noticeboard Requests Enforcement Edit filters Requested False positives Questions Help desk Teahouse Reference desk New articles Requests for comment Village pump Policy Technical Proposals Idea lab WMF Miscellaneous WikiProject proposals Discussions for discussion Category:Wikipedia noticeboards Media copyright questions Shortcuts WP:CQ WP:MCQ WP:IMAGEHELP WP:ICHD Welcome to the Media Copyright Questions page, a place for help with image copyrights, tagging, non-free content, and related questions. For all other questions please see Wikipedia:Questions. How to add a copyright tag to an existing image On the description page of the image (the one whose name starts File:), click Edit this page. From the page Wikipedia:File copyright tags, choose the appropriate tag: For work you created yourself, use one of the ones listed under the heading "For image creators". For a work downloaded from the internet, please understand that the vast majority of images from the internet are not appropriate for use on Wikipedia. Exceptions include images from flickr that have an acceptable license, images that are in the public domain because of their age or because they were created by the United States federal government, or images used under a claim of fair use. If you do not know what you are doing, please post a link to the image here and ask BEFORE uploading it. For an image created by someone else who has licensed their image under an acceptable Creative Commons or other free license, or has released their image into the public domain, this permission must be documented. Please see Requesting copyright permission for more information. Type the name of the tag (e.g.; {{Cc-by-4.0}}), not forgetting {{ before and }} after, in the edit box on the image's description page. Remove any existing tag complaining that the image has no tag (for example, {{untagged}}) Hit Publish changes. If you still have questions, go on to "How to ask a question" below. How to ask a question To ask a new question hit the "Click here to start a new discussion" link below. Please sign your question by typing ~~~~ at the end. Check this page for updates, or request to be notified on your talk page. Don't include your email address, for your own privacy. We will respond here and cannot respond by email. Note for those replying to posted questions If a question clearly does not belong on this page, reply to it using the template {{mcq-wrong}} and, if possible, leave a note on the poster's talk page. For copyright issues relevant to Commons where questions arising cannot be answered locally, questions may be directed to Commons:Commons:Village pump/Copyright. If you have a question about a specific image, please be sure to link to it like this: [[:File:Example.jpg]]. (Please note the ":" just before the word File) Thanks! Click here to start a new discussion Click here to purge this page (For help, see Wikipedia:Purge) Archives Archive list Archive year 2006 Closed Archive year 2007 Closed Archive year 2008 Closed Archive year 2009 Closed Archive year 2010 Closed Archive year 2011 Closed Archive year 2012 Closed Archive year 2013 Closed Archive year 2014 Closed Archive year 2015 Closed Archive year 2016 Closed Archive year 2017 Closed Archive year 2018 Closed Archive year 2019 Closed Archive year 2020 Closed Archive year 2021 Closed Archive year 2022 Closed Archive year 2023 Open Some pre-2009 archives from pages now merged here (note: more recent questions from these pages can be found at WP:MCQ or its archives above.) Requested copyright examinations archives Can I use... 2005-2006 archive Can I use... January-August 2007 archive Can I use... August-December 2007 archive Wikipedia:Image copyright help desk/Archive 1 Wikipedia:Image copyright help desk/Archive 2 This page serves as a portal for Yearly archives, inside the archives are in month format, please see the Archives in the sidebox. Thanks. Sections older than 14 days may be automatically archived by Lowercase sigmabot III. MissingNo.[edit] The current primary image of the article MissingNo. (File:Missingno.png) is a Fair Use image. As is required for all Fair Use images, the Fair Use rationale template argues that the image is not replaceable, as it needs to depict a game sprite. However, this disregards the fact that the only important part of the image—the image of MissingNo. itself—is not a copyrightable work, as it was created by a computer program rather than a human. The replacement Public Domain image already exists on the Commons (also as an SVG), and has templates that explain why it is not a copyrightable work. The unnecessary inclusion of other sprites and UI elements in the current image is what makes it a Fair Use image. I had previously nominated the current image for deletion for this reason, but @Kung Fu Man disagreed, and the closing administrator @Explicit suggested that the Commons image be nominated for deletion first. I personally think it would be disingenuous for me to nominate an image for deletion if I do not believe it should be deleted (the Commons image is clearly public domain) just so that I can say that it survived a deletion discussion, so I don't really know how to resolve this issue, unless someone else who disagrees wants to nominate it. I raised this topic on the article's talk page, and was recommended to share my concerns here. SnorlaxMonster 07:53, 6 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] I'll reply there. czar 18:10, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] File:EAJ-PNV logo.svg[edit] The file has been removed for the next Spanish election opinion polls pages. However, it hasn't on the party's page. ValenciaThunderbolt (talk) 14:40, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Hi ValenciaThunderbolt. File:EAJ-PNV logo.svg is a non-free file and non-free files are required to have two things on their file pages: (1) a copyright license and (2) a non-free use rationale for each use. In almost every cases, a single non-free copyright license is sufficient regardless of how many times a file is being used; however, since not all non-free uses are equivalent, a separate, specific non-free use rationale needs to be added to the file's page for each of its uses. If you look at the file page for "File:EAJ-PNV logo.svg", you'll find that it doesn't have a non-free use rationale for any uses other than its use in the main article about the party itself. Since this means the other uses of the file failed to comply with non-free content use criterion #10c, the file was removed from the other articles where it was being used in accordance with WP:NFCCE. If you feel the non-free use of the file meets all ten of the non-free content use criteria listed in WP:NFCCP, you should add non-free rationales for those uses to the file's page and then re-add the file to those other articles. However, adding a non-free use rationale is WP:JUSTONE of the criteria that needs to be satisfied, and doesn't automatically make a non-free use OK. Non-free logos, in particular, are generally considered OK to use for primary identification purposes in the main infoboxes of stand-alone articles about the entities they represent, but trying to use them in other ways or in other articles often is considered WP:DECORATIVE and not allowed per WP:NFCC and MOS:LOGO. In other words, trying to use them as icons in tables in other articles in most likely not going to be considered policy compliant. -- Marchjuly (talk) 01:50, 9 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] File:Chirped pulse amplification.png[edit] This file is actually distributed under the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0, see https://www.llnl.gov/copyright-reuse I provide evidence of this fact on the discussion page of the file. Here is a link to the file page: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Chirped_pulse_amplification.png 128.12.200.84 (talk) 00:10, 9 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] That image is on Commons and would need to be nominated for deletion there. -- Whpq (talk) 00:40, 9 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] I've done that for the IP-address editor: c:Commons:Deletion requests/File:Chirped pulse amplification.png. Anon126 (notify me of responses! / talk / contribs) 07:43, 9 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Discussion at File talk:Royal Military College Duntroon badge.gif § ‎I believe this image is in the Public Domain and should be changed to CC0[edit] You are invited to join the discussion at File talk:Royal Military College Duntroon badge.gif § ‎I believe this image is in the Public Domain and should be changed to CC0. Rotideypoc41352 (talk · contribs) 05:58, 12 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Use of non-free image on more than one page[edit] I created a page on the Emblem of Hamas. Naturally, the emblem should be present on that page: File:Hamas logo.png. However, the image is already present on the page for Hamas. Is it possible that the im contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 69 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Media_copyright_questions responseCode 3 200 