qinsuitqlasezaoqxqnmoangtidifokosmwamaqk length 6 269537 page 10136 State of Myanmar For the historical region, see Arakan. For the administrative division of the British Empire, see Arakan Division. This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) The neutrality of this article is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (May 2015) (template removal help) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Rakhine State" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2011) (template removal help) (template removal help) State in West coastal, Myanmar Rakhine State ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ် Arakan State State Myanma transcription(s) • Burmese ra.hkuing: prany nai • Arakanese Rakhai Pray Nay Flag Location of Rakhine State in Myanmar (Burma) Coordinates: 19°30′N 94°0′E﻿ / ﻿19.500°N 94.000°E﻿ / 19.500; 94.000 Country Myanmar Region West coastal Capital Sittwe Government • Chief Minister Aung Kyaw Min • Cabinet Rakhine State Government • Legislature Rakhine State Hluttaw • Judiciary Rakhine State High Court Area • Total 36,778.0 km2 (14,200.1 sq mi) • Rank 8th Highest elevation (Kema Taung) 1,851 m (6,073 ft) Population (2014) • Total 3,188,807[1] • Rank 8th Demographics • Ethnicities Arakanese (Rakhine), Rohingya, Kaman, Bamars, Chin, Mro, Khami, That, Maramagyi and others • Religions[2] 63.3% Buddhism 35.1% Islam 1.2% Christianity 0.3% Hinduism 0.1% Animism Time zone UTC+06:30 (MMT) HDI (2017) 0.520[3] low · 13th Website rakhinestate.gov.mm This article contains Burmese script. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Burmese script. Rakhine State (/rəˈkaɪn/ ⓘ; Burmese: ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်; MLCTS: ra.hkuing pranynai, Rakhine pronunciation [ɹəkʰàiɰ̃ pɹènè], Burmese pronunciation: [jəkʰàiɰ̃ pjìnɛ̀]; formerly known as Arakan State) is a state in Myanmar (Burma). Situated on the western coast, it is bordered by Chin State to the north, Magway Region, Bago Region and Ayeyarwady Region to the east, the Bay of Bengal to the west and the Chittagong Division of Bangladesh to the northwest. It is located approximately between latitudes 17°30' north and 21°30' north and longitudes 92°10' east and 94°50' east. The Arakan Mountains or Rakhine Yoma separated Rakhine State from central Burma from North to South. Off the coast of Rakhine State there are some fairly large islands such as Ramree, Cheduba and Myingun. Rakhine State has an area of 36,762 square kilometres (14,194 sq mi) and its capital is Sittwe (formerly known as Akyab).[4] Names[edit] Main article: Rakhine people § Ethnonyms The state was historically known as Arakan in English until the Burmese government adopted the English name Rakhine in 1990.[5] History[edit] Main articles: Arakan, Arakan Division, and History of Rakhine Silver coin of king Nitichandra, Arakan. Brahmi legend "NITI" in front, Shrivatasa symbol on the reverse. 8th century CE. The history of the region of Arakan (now renamed Rakhine) State can be roughly divided into seven parts. The first four divisions and the periods are based on the location of the centre of power of the main polities in the northern Rakhine region, especially along the Kaladan River. Thus, the history is divided into the Dhanyawadi, Waithali, Laymro and Mrauk U. Mrauk U was conquered by the Konbaung dynasty of Burma in 1784–85, after which Rakhine became part of the Konbaung kingdom of Burma. In 1824, the first Anglo-Burmese war erupted and in 1826, Rakhine (alongside Tanintharyi) was ceded to the British East India Company as war reparations by the Burmese. Rakhine thus became part of the province of Burma in British India. In 1948, Burma was given independence and Rakhine became part of the newly independent state. Independent kingdom[edit] Beginning in the 900s, the Bamar began migrating westward, crossing the Arakan Mountains and settling in what is now Rakhine State.[6][7] By the 1100s, they had consolidated control of the region, becoming a tributary state of the Pagan Empire until the 13th century.[8][7] Over time, these Bamar migrants formed a distinct cultural identity, eventually becoming the Rakhine people (also known as the Arakanese).[7][8] According to Rakhine legend, the first recorded kingdom, centred around the northern town of Dhanyawadi, arose in the 34th century BCE and lasted until 327 CE. These polities were likely inhabited by Indo-Aryan peoples. Rakhine documents and inscriptions state that the famed Mahamuni Buddha image was cast in Dhanyawady in around 554 BCE when the Buddha visited the kingdom. After the fall of Dhanyawadi in the 4th century CE, the centre of power shifted to a new dynasty based in the town of Waithali. The Waithali kingdom ruled the regions of Rakhine from the middle of the 4th century to 818 CE. The period is seen as the classical period of Rakhine culture, architecture and Buddhism, as the Waithali period left behind more archaeological remains than its predecessor. A new dynasty emerged in four towns along the Lemyo River as Waithali waned in influence, and ushered in the Lemro period, where four principal towns served as successive capitals.[citation needed] After its partial dominance by the Islamic Delhi Sultanate and Bengal Sultanate, the final Kingdom of Mrauk U was founded in 1429 by Min Saw Mon. It is seen by the Rakhine people as the golden age of their history, as Mrauk U served as a commercially important port and base of power in the Bay of Bengal region and involved in extensive maritime trade with Arabia and Europe.[citation needed]Part of it, along Bengal Subah's Chittagong, was later conquered by the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb. The country steadily declined from the 18th century onwards after its loss to the Mughal Empire. Internal instability, rebellion and dethroning of kings were very common. The Portuguese, during the era of their greatness in Asia, gained a temporary establishment in Arakan.[9][10][11][12] Burmese rule[edit] On 2 January 1785, the internally divided kingdom fell to invading forces of the Konbaung dynasty. The Mahamuni Image was taken away by the Burmese Forces as war loot. Thus, an expansionist Burma came into direct territorial contact with territories of the British East India Company, which set the stage for future flaring of hostility. Various geopolitical issues gave rise to the First Anglo-Burmese War (1824–26). As the image of Mahamuni had been taken as war loot by the Burmese, this time the huge bell of the temple was taken by the Presidency armies and awarded to an Indian soldier, Bhim Singh, a Risaldar in the 2nd Battalion of the Bengal Army, for his bravery. This inscribed huge bell is still installed in a temple at village Nadrai near Kasganj town in present-day Kanshiram Nagar District of Uttar Pradesh India. In the Treaty of Yandabo (1826), which ended hostilities, Burma ceded Arakan alongside Tanintharyi (Tenasserim) to British India. The British made Akyab (now Sittwe) the capital of Arakan. Later, Arakan became part of the province of Burma of the British Indian Empire, and then part of British Burma when Burma was made into a separate crown colony. Arakan was administratively divided into three districts along traditional divisions during the Mrauk U period. British rule[edit] Rakhine was the centre of multiple insurgencies which fought against British rule, notably led by the monks U Ottama and U Seinda. During the Second World War, Rakhine was given autonomy under the Japanese occupation of Burma and was even granted its own army known as the Arakan Defense Force. The Arakan Defense Force went over to the allies and turned against the Japanese in early 1945. Rakhine (Arakan) was the site of many battles during the Second World War, most notably the Arakan Campaign 1942–43 and the Battle of Ramree Island. Laung Bwann Brauk Pagoda Burmese independence[edit] In 1948, Rakhine became a division within the Union of Burma, and the three districts became Arakan Division. From the 1950s, there was a growing movement for secession and restoration of Arakan independence. In part to appease this sentiment, in 1974, the socialist government under General Ne Win constituted "Rakhine State" from Arakan Division giving at least nominal acknowledgment of the regional majority of the Rakhine people. 2010 onwards (after 2008 constitution)[edit] Since 2010, Rakhine state has had two chief ministers: Hla Maung Tin and Major General Maung Maung Ohn. Hla Maung Tin ( January 2011 – 20 June 2014) was an elected Rakhine State Hluttaw member representing USDP from Ann Township in 2010 general election. He resigned from the post after recurrent intense inter-communal conflicts between Muslims and Rakhine ethnic groups in 2012–14.[13] In 2014, he was replaced by Major General Maung Maung Ohn (30 June 2014 – present). Ohn was Deputy Minister for Border Affairs and head of the Rakhine State's Emergency Coordination Center before he was named to become a military-appointed Rakhine State Hluttaw member by Election Commission on 21 June 2014. His appointment as Chief Minister was formalised on 30 June 2014 although Arakan National Party opposed it.[14] 2012 Rakhine State riots[edit] Main article: 2012 Rakhine State riots The 2012 Rakhine State riots were a series of conflicts between Rohingya Muslims and Rakhine Buddhists who are majority in the Rakhine State. Before the riots, there were widespread and strongly held fears circulating among Buddhist Rakhines (who were a large majority) that they would soon become a minority in their ancestral state.[15] The riots finally came after weeks of sectarian disputes including the death of ten Burmese Muslims by Rakhines and murder of a Rakhine by Rohingyas.[16][17] From both sides, whole villages w contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Rakhine_State responseCode 3 200 