qkosnqskrsmcqehkriratsdclihcwmwaksiaxoki page 10813 Battle in the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine Battle of Slavutych Part of the Kyiv offensive of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine Date 18–27 March 2022 (1 week and 2 days) Location Slavutych, Kyiv Oblast, Ukraine Result Russian victory Belligerents Russia Ukraine Units involved Russian Armed Forces Ukrainian Armed Forces 114th Territorial Defense Brigade 119th Territorial Defense Brigade Strength Unknown, at least six tanks 186 Territorial Defense fighters Casualties and losses At least one tank destroyed by artillery 4 Territorial Defense fighters killed, 4 taken prisoner[citation needed] 2 civilians wounded v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia The battle of Slavutych was a military engagement which took place during the Kyiv offensive of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in the city of Slavutych, a purpose-built settlement for workers in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. Russian forces attacked and besieged the city for nine days in March 2022, forcing out Ukrainian defenders. As in Konotop, the Russians agreed with Ukrainian authorities to not enter the city in return for residents not attacking nor opposing Russian forces. Timeline[edit] Initial siege and humanitarian crisis[edit] Russian forces surrounded Slavutych on 18 March, laying siege to the city and cutting off all supplies of food and medicine from outside the city.[1] The city's electricity supply was disconnected; after Ukrenergo employees repaired damaged electricity lines to reconnect the city, Russian forces damaged them again. Security checkpoints were set up on the outskirts of the city, although evacuation of civilians from the city remained impossible.[2] Fighting escalated in the Slavutych area on 23 March, after Russian forces opened fire on a security checkpoint in the outskirts of the city.[3] The shelling of the outskirts of Slavutych continued into 24 March, with conditions within the besieged city described as a "humanitarian catastrophe".[4] On 25 March, reports emerged that Russian snipers had potentially infiltrated within the city; Slavutych City Council issued a curfew as a result, forbidding residents from moving around the city.[5] End of battle and Russian withdrawal[edit] On 26 March, Russian armed forces entered Slavutych unopposed after driving Ukrainian Territorial Defense Force personnel away from the outlying checkpoints with artillery and direct tank fire. One Ukrainian fighter died at a checkpoint, and three more were killed by snipers while retreating. The city hospital was captured by Russian forces. Reports emerged that Russian troops had abducted the mayor of Slavutych, Yuriy Fomichev; he was ultimately released in time to address a protest rally against the Russian invasion which took place later that day in the city square.[6] More than 5,000 residents of the city took part in the peaceful protest,[7] until it was disrupted by Russian troops firing warning shots and launching stun grenades into the crowd, injuring at least one civilian.[8] Footage of protesters fleeing stun grenades circulated online internationally; the attack on a peaceful protest rally by civilians is a possible war crime.[citation needed] In an address at the protest rally, the mayor of Slavutych assured Russian forces that there were no military forces or weapons within the city, telling them that they should withdraw as a result.[9] Subsequently, Russian forces withdrew from the city centre into the city's outer suburbs.[10] The mayor of Slavutych agreed to allow Russian forces to search the city for weapons in order for them to agree to withdraw from the city. This process was completed on 27 March, and Russian troops exited Slavutych.[11] Subsequently, humanitarian corridors were established in order to allow supplies and humanitarian aid to enter the city and give civilians the opportunity to evacuate for the first time in nine days.[citation needed] References[edit] ^ СЛАВУТИЧ, ПОНЕДІЛОК (14 March 2022). "Славутич повністю ізольований і потребує продуктів харчування, - ОВА". РБК-Україна (in Ukrainian). Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ "ЧАЕС та Славутич знову без електрики. Окупанти пошкодили відремонтовану лінію". Liga.net (in Ukrainian). 14 March 2022. Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ ТИЩЕНКО, КАТЕРИНА (23 March 2022). "Київщина: росіяни обстріляли блокпост у Славутичі, місто заблоковане". Українська правда (in Ukrainian). Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ "Місто-супутник ЧАЕС. Російські окупанти намагаються штурмувати Славутич". nv.ua (in Ukrainian). 24 March 2022. Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ "У Славутичі суворо заборонили цивільним пересуватися містом: яка причина". TSN.ua (in Ukrainian). 25 March 2022. Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ БАЛАЧУК, ІРИНА (26 March 2022). "У Славутичі є поранені, але мера окупанти відпустили". Українська правда (in Ukrainian). Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ РОЩІНА, ОЛЕНА. "Мер окупованого Славутича: Компромісів не було, росіяни поставили одну умову". Українська правда (in Ukrainian). 27 March 2022. Retrieved 29 March 2022.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: location (link) ^ Орлова, Віолетта (26 March 2022). "Танки РФ ввійшли у Славутич: містяни зібралися на проукраїнські протести". unian.ua (in Ukrainian). Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ Комісарова, Олександра (26 March 2022). "Окупанти РФ відпустили мера Славутича, він розповів про "домовленості"". PublicNews (in Ukrainian). Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ "Загарбники вийшли з центру Славутича і стоять на околицях". ukrinform.ua (in Ukrainian). 26 March 2022. Retrieved 29 March 2022. ^ "Російські окупанти залишили Славутич". Interfax Україна (in Ukrainian). 28 March 2022. Retrieved 29 March 2022. v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Part of the Russo-Ukrainian War Overview General Outline Timeline Prelude (February – April 2022) (April – August 2022) (August – November 2022) (November 2022 – June 2023) (June 2023 – August 2023) (September 2023 – present) Aerial warfare Defense lines Foreign fighters Information war Naval warfare Legality Map Order of battle Peace negotiations Proposed no-fly zone Red lines Reparations Territorial control Women Prelude Reactions Disinformation Ukraine bioweapons conspiracy theory Ukraine and weapons of mass destruction 2021 Russia–United States summit 2021 Black Sea incident Belarus–European Union border crisis "On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians" Crimea Platform Zapad 2021 Ukraine cyberattacks Union Resolve 2022 Stanytsia Luhanska kindergarten bombing British–Polish–Ukrainian trilateral pact Evacuation of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Mobilization in Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR "Address concerning the events in Ukraine" "On conducting a special military operation" Background Dissolution of the Soviet Union 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine historical background Annexation of Crimea reactions War in Donbas 2022 timeline Minsk agreements humanitarian situation international recognition of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Putinism Foundations of Geopolitics Novorossiya Ruscism Russian irredentism Russian imperialism Foreign relations Russia–Ukraine Belarus–Ukraine Belarus–Russia Russia–United States Russia–NATO Ukraine–NATO enlargement of NATO eastward expansion controversy in Russia open door policy Military engagements Southern Ukraine Snake Island campaign Siege of Mariupol Battle of Kherson Battle of Melitopol Battle of Myk contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Battle_of_Slavutych responseCode 3 200 