qodiocraaksmgguqnataxqeawifieqqkrogqfebk length 6 519282 page 10214 Wikimedia project page Shortcuts H:D H:INDEX H:DIR Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Chat Meetups Directories (Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects) "H:D" redirects here. You might be looking for Help:Discussion. This is a directory of Wikipedia's how-to and information pages, alongside other related administrative pages in the Wikipedia and Help namespaces. New to Wikipedia? See our introduction for aspiring contributors. If you require interactive assistance, see asking for help. For other useful directories and indexes, see directories. You can browse help related pages using the "search box" below. Help Wikipedia Most common questions How to edit a page How to start a new page How to use talk pages How to rename (move) a page How to use redirect pages How to revert a page to an earlier version How to link together Wikipedia articles in different languages How to delete pages How to import articles How to break up a page How to use tables How to edit on mobile devices How to find the Manual of Style (MoS) About Wikipedia Note: You can use the sandbox to experiment with page editing. About Wikipedia – general introduction for visitors to Wikipedia. Administration – discuses both the non-human administrative structure of Wikipedia, as well as its human components. FAQ – the most common questions about Wikipedia. Readers' FAQ – concerns and questions readers may have. Advice for parents – information for parents and legal guardians. Contact Wikipedia – how to get in touch with Wikipedia directly. General disclaimer – there is no guarantee of validity and reliability. Content disclaimer – Wikipedia is not censored. Legal disclaimer – Wikipedia does not give legal opinions. Medical disclaimer – Wikipedia does not give medical advice. Risk disclaimer – use Wikipedia at your own risk. Policies & guidelines – community standards set forth by Wikipedians. Principles – a listing of fundamental principles by which Wikipedia operates. Statement of principles – by founder Jimmy Wales and Wikipedians. Wikipedia in brief – Wikipedia aims to be neutral, verifiable and factual. Researching – Wikipedia can be a great tool for learning, however ... What Wikipedia is not – there are certain things that Wikipedia is not. Where to ask questions – find the right place to ask a question. Where to make requests – find the right place to make a request. Who writes Wikipedia – You do! Just do it! Be bold! Contributor information Help portal Contributing to Wikipedia – the main page that provides information, links, videos and other resources on the basics needed to comprehend, comment on, and contribute to Wikipedia. Core content policies – Wikipedia's content is governed by three principal core content policies. Simplified rule-set – some basic aspect of Wikipedia norms and practices. Simplified Manual of Style – the basics about commonly used style guidelines. Welcome to Wikipedia – portal style page to get you started. Getting started – small listing of pages dealing with the basics. New contributors' help page – what would you like to do? Common mistakes – a few common mistakes y'all should try to avoid. Plain and simple overview – all about this amazing project Wikipedia. Primer for newcomers – blunt introduction intended to help newcomers. Learning the ropes – highlights the resources to help you help Wikipedia. Help hub – a page that has links to useful directories. Why create an account – don't need to be registered to edit, however it does provide additional features. Choosing a username – do not choose names which may be offensive, misleading, disruptive, or promotional. How to log in – If you are not logged in your edits are labelled in page history with your IP address. Your first article – guide to starting your first encyclopedia article. Annotated article – is a well-constructed sample article, with annotations. Article wizard – will walk you through the process of submitting a new article. Creation and usage of media files – only logged in users can upload files. Upload Wizard – will walk you through the process of submitting media. Frequently Asked Questions – common questions about using and contributing. Editorial oversight and control- we have tens of thousands of editors, from expert scholars to casual readers. How to help – what anyone can do to contribute. More instructional material – provides links to instructional material useful for users. Trifecta – ultra fast overview of foundational principles related to policies and guidelines. Things you may not know about Wikipedia – insights specifically targeted at people who have limited experience. Tip of the day – provides "very useful" advice daily on how to use or develop Wikipedia more effectively. See also Wikipedia:Tips, the complete library of tips arranged by subject. User page design center – where you will find all the resources for developing your user page. Enjoy! Back to contents Frequently asked questions FAQ main page – questions about using and contributing. Administration – answers some questions related to Administrators. Article subjects – what to do about a specific articles. Categories – about using Wikipedia's categories. Contributing – answers to questions commonly asked by contributors. Copyright – four most commonly asked questions about copyright. Editing – answers the most common questions about editing. Forking – how do I download and use Wikipedia content. IRC (live chat) – about "chat rooms" – real-time discussions. Organizations – editing without displaying a conflict of interest. Problems – solving problems you may encounter when browsing or editing. Readers – addresses concerns and questions readers may have. Schools – questions teachers, librarians and administrators might have. Technical – answers some questions related to the technical workings. (Miscellaneous) – questions that do not fit into any of the others above. How to pages Help:help – explains how to find and navigate the help pages. Books – explains how to make and download Wikipedia books. Categories – explains how to edit categories. Copyright – explains how to deal with copyright concerns. Diff – explains how to view the difference between two versions of a page Editing – explains the basics of editing. Edit toolbar – explains the basics about how to use the toolbar. Edit conflict – explains how to deal with an edit conflict. Find sources – explains how to find references. Files – explains how to manage media. Footnotes – explains how to add notes and references. Nesting footnotes – explains how to include a note or reference within a note or reference. Glossary – quick overview of terms. Infobox – explains the basics about how to use infoboxes. IPA/English – explains how the International Phonetic Alphabet system works. List – explains how to add lists. Linking – explains how to add internal links. Link color – explains how to add color to link text. Logging in – explains how to access your account. Magic words – explains how words surrounded by brackets or underscores function. Media – explains the basics of seeing media. Merging – explains how to consolidate articles. Mobile access – explains how to access Wikipedia from mobile devices. Navigation – explains how to get around Wikipedia. Other languages – explains how to deal with other languages. Page name – explains how to deal with page titles. Redirect – explains how to direct pages to the proper place. References – explains how to make those complicated sources work. Citation Style – explains some of the different reference styles. Cite errors – explains how to deal with errors in references. Rename – explains how to change your user name. Password – explains how to change your personal password. Reverting – explains how to roll back edits. Searching – explains how to use Wikipedia more effectively. Section – explains how to edit just portions of a page. Talk pages – explains the basics of what to do on talk pages. Students – explains the basics for students. URLs – explains how to add and deal with external links. User contributions – explains how to view editors additions. Watching pages – explains how to track pages. Technical help Multilingual support – explains how articles may contain words or texts written in different languages and scripts Special Characters – contains recommendations for which characters are safe to use and how to enter them. Entering – explains how special characters (those not on the standard computer keyboard) are useful—and sometimes necessary. Browser notes Troubleshooting Bypass cache Mobile access Printing Keyboard shortcuts Editing Edit toolbar CharInsert Edit conflict Reverting VisualEditor User guide User access levels Software notices Editnotice IRC Tutorial Create a page Page history Page information Page name Introduction Special pages Special page help Searching Advanced search Linksearch Logging in Reset passwords Notifications/Echo FAQ Moving a page Fixing cut-and-paste moves Watching pages User contributions Emailing users Random pages Logs What links here Related changes Recent changes Pending changes Page Curation Page import Edit filter Tags Links and diffs URLs Links Permanent link Interwikimedia links Interlanguage links Link color Pipe trick Colon trick Diffs Simplest diff guide Simple diff and link guide Complete diff and link guide Media files: images, videos and sounds * Media help Options to hide an image Uploading images Introduction Files Creation and usage Moving files to Commons Visual file markup Images Preparing images for upload Picture tutorial Extended image syntax Gallery tag Graphics tutorials Basic bitmap image editing How to improve image quality Graphics Lab resources Sound file markup SVG help Other graphics Family trees Graphs and charts How to create To scale charts Barcharts Math formula Math symbols Rendering math LaTeX symbols Musical scores Musical symbols Timeline EasyTime contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Directory responseCode 3 200 