qqjqisckzogcxkvqkshewamgwqcspcgebqjmiasm length 6 233014 page 10120 Incident during the Russian invasion of Ukraine 19 August 2023 Chernihiv bombing Part of Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine Blood of a victim on the ground in Chernihiv after the missile attack Location Chernihiv, Ukraine Date 19 August 2023 Attack type Airstrike Deaths 7 Injured 144+ Perpetrators Russia v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia On 19 August 2023, Russian military forces launched an Iskander-M ballistic missile at the Taras Shevchenko Theater in downtown Chernihiv, Ukraine. Events[edit] The theater was hosting an exhibition on the use of consumer drones in the Russian Invasion of Ukraine, titled "Lyuti Ptashky" (Angry Birds), which was described by its organisers as "a closed meeting of engineers, military and volunteers."[1] Governor of Chernihiv Oblast, Vyacheslav Chaus, announced that 7 were dead, including a 6-year-old girl. Another 144 were injured, including 15 children and 15 policemen,[2] with 41 injuries being grievous and requiring medical evacuations to a hospital.[3][4][5][6] Earlier in the day Russian President, Vladimir Putin, met with his top generals in Rostov-on-Don while President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, was in Sweden for discussions of the import of Saab JAS 39 Gripens to Ukraine.[1] In an address, Zelenskiy called the attack "vile" and that “I am sure our soldiers will give a response to Russia for this terrorist attack,” promising a “a notable response” to Russia in the coming days.[6] Chernihiv was besieged in the early stages of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, until April 2022, but was relatively peaceful afterwards up until the missile strike. Mayor Oleksandr Lomako announced a three day of mourning in the city for the victims of the attack.[7] The strike occurred during the Orthodox holiday of the Transfiguration of the Lord, and certain locals were going to morning church services in Chernihiv. UN's humanitarian coordinator for Ukraine, Denise Brown, condemned Russia for attacking civilians: "I condemn this repeated pattern of Russian strikes on populated areas of Ukraine... Attacks directed against civilians or civilian objects are strictly prohibited under international humanitarian law".[8] See also[edit] Russian war crimes Lyman cluster bombing 2023 Kramatorsk restaurant missile strike References[edit] ^ a b Kostenko, Maria; Dean, Sarah; Tanno, Sophie. "Seven dead including six-year-old girl as Russian missile hits center of Ukraine's Chernihiv city". CNN. Retrieved 20 August 2023. ^ "Ракетний удар по центру Чернігова. Поліція уточнила кількість постраждалих" (in Ukrainian). РБК-Україна. 20 August 2023. Retrieved 20 August 2023. ^ Ogirenko, Valentyn. "Seven killed, 144 wounded in Russian missile strike on Ukraine's Chernihiv". Reuters. Retrieved 20 August 2023. ^ "Russia Hits Ukraine's Chernihiv After Putin Meets Generals - Wrap Up". Kyiv Post. Retrieved 20 August 2023. ^ Waterhouse, James; Wright, George. "Chernihiv: Russian missile strike kills seven and injures 144, Ukraine says". BBC. Retrieved 20 August 2023. ^ a b "At least seven killed in Russian strike on theatre in centre of Chernihiv". The Guardian. Retrieved 20 August 2023. ^ Kelsey Ables, Victoria Bisset, David L. Stern, Justine McDaniel, Jan Ludwig, Dan Rosenzweig-Ziff (19 August 2023). "Ukraine live briefing: Russian strike on theater in Chernihiv kills seven, injures more than 140, Ukraine says". The Washington Post. Retrieved 20 August 2023.{{cite news}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) ^ "UN condemns fatal Russian attack on Ukraine's Chernihiv". Hindustan Times. 19 August 2023. Retrieved 20 August 2023. External links[edit] Media related to Missile attack on Chernihiv, 19 August 2023 at Wikimedia Commons v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Part of the Russo-Ukrainian War Overview General Outline Timeline Prelude (February – April 2022) (April – August 2022) (August – November 2022) (November 2022 – June 2023) (June 2023 – August 2023) (September 2023 – present) Aerial warfare Defense lines Foreign fighters Information war Naval warfare Legality Map Order of battle Peace negotiations Proposed no-fly zone Red lines Reparations Territorial control Women Prelude Reactions Disinformation Ukraine bioweapons conspiracy theory Ukraine and weapons of mass destruction 2021 Russia–United States summit 2021 Black Sea incident Belarus–European Union border crisis "On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians" Crimea Platform Zapad 2021 Ukraine cyberattacks Union Resolve 2022 Stanytsia Luhanska kindergarten bombing British–Polish–Ukrainian trilateral pact Evacuation of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Mobilization in Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR "Address concerning the events in Ukraine" "On conducting a special military operation" Background Dissolution of the Soviet Union 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine historical background Annexation of Crimea reactions War in Donbas 2022 timeline Minsk agreements humanitarian situation international recognition of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Putinism Foundations of Geopolitics Novorossiya Ruscism Russian irredentism Russian imperialism Foreign relations Russia–Ukraine Belarus–Ukraine Belarus–Russia Russia–United States Russia–NATO Ukraine–NATO enlargement of NATO eastward expansion controversy in Russia open door policy Military engagements Southern Ukraine Snake Island campaign Siege of Mariupol Battle of Kherson Battle of Melitopol Battle of Mykolaiv Battle of Enerhodar Battles of Voznesensk Battle of Huliaipole Battle of Orikhiv Battle of Davydiv Brid Kherson counteroffensive Liberation of Kherson Dnieper campaign Destruction of the Kakhovka Dam Eastern Ukraine Battle of Avdiivka Battle of Marinka Battle of Volnovakha Battle of Kharkiv Battle of Izium Battle of Rubizhne Battle of Popasna Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Battle of Kreminna Battle of the Siverskyi Donets Battle of Sievierodonetsk Battle of Toshkivka First Battle of Lyman Battle of Sviatohirsk Battle of Lysychansk Battle of Siversk Battle of Pisky Battle of Bakhmut Battle of Soledar Battle of Vuhledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Battle of Balakliia Battle of Kupiansk Second Battle of Lyman Luhansk Oblast campaign Northern Ukraine Battle of Antonov Airport Capture of Chernobyl Battle of Hlukhiv Battle of Ivankiv Battle of Kyiv Battle of Hostomel Battle of Vasylkiv Battle of Bucha Battle of Irpin Battle of Makariv Russian Kyiv convoy Battle of Moshchun Battle of Brovary Battle of Slavutych Battle of Konotop Battle of Sumy Battle of Trostianets Siege of Chernihiv Battle of Okhtyrka Battle of Lebedyn Northeastern Ukraine–Russia border skirmishes Airstrikes by city Bombing of Dnipro Bombing of Ivano-Frankivsk Bombing of Kharkiv Bombing of Kherson Bombing of Khmelnytskyi Bombing of Kryvyi Rih Bombing of Kyiv Bombing of Lviv Bombing of Mykolaiv Bombing of Odesa Bombing of Rivne Vinnytsia missile strikes Bombing of Zaporizhzhia Zhytomyr attacks Airstrikes on military targets Chuhuiv air base attack Millerovo air base attack Chornobaivka attacks Yavoriv military base attack Berdiansk port attack Sinking of the Moskva Desna barracks airstrike Attack on Nova Kakhovka Crimea attacks Novofedorivka explosions Drone attack on the Sevastopol Naval Base Missile strike on the Black Sea Fleet headquarters Dyagilevo and Engels air bases attacks M contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 70 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/August_2023_Chernihiv_missile_strike responseCode 3 200 