qqymqmeclmkmdgtevmhigksclkfghmwmcacmeawo length 6 263323 page 10006 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Did you know... 30 April 2022 00:00, 30 April 2022 (UTC) Martin Fehérváry ... that Martin Fehérváry (pictured) became the youngest foreign player to play in the Swedish Hockey League following his debut at the age of 16? ... that women were elected to the Odessa City Duma for the first time in 1917? ... that Mancunian rapper Geko was signed to UK music collective USG at the age of 13, becoming their youngest member? ... that Elvis Costello missed his day job while recording his debut album My Aim Is True over six four-hour sessions? ... that the largest intact Ancient Egyptian tomb ever found, with 254 richly decorated sarcophagi, was forgotten for almost a century? ... that Jaega Wise co-hosted the television series Beer Masters alongside musician James Blunt? ... that a laptop was purchased for $1,345,000 in May 2019 despite being unable to connect to the internet? ... that Dave Frederick has been referred to as the "Sussex County humorist-teacher-writer-radio-host-philosopher dude"? 29 April 2022 00:00, 29 April 2022 (UTC) Main House ruins at Cheshire Hall Plantation ... that during the late 1700s, Cheshire Hall Plantation (pictured) was the largest house and estate on Providenciales, Turks and Caicos Islands? ... that, upon ordination, Earl K. Fernandes will be the first Indian-American Latin Catholic bishop in the United States? ... that the melody of Mozart's aria "Dove sono" from Le nozze di Figaro, asking "Where are those happy moments ...?", begins similarly to the Agnus Dei from his earlier Coronation Mass? ... that Curtis Island has risen by 18 metres (59 ft) during the last 200 years? ... that Rachel Dyer, published in 1828, is the first American bound novel about the Salem witch trials? ... that Brazilian computer science researcher and internet pioneer Tadao Takahashi negotiated with drug lords to install internet equipment in his country? ... that with "Alligator", Of Monsters and Men had their second top-ten hit on the Billboard Hot Rock Songs chart and their first number-one on the magazine's Rock Airplay chart? ... that a kettle that looked like Adolf Hitler was offered on eBay for US$199? 28 April 2022 00:00, 28 April 2022 (UTC) Gold plating ... that Daniel Davis was the first person in the United States to work with gold and silver electroplating (illustrated) as a business? ... that Gret Palucca had to close her dance school in Dresden, Germany, in 1939 because of her Jewish descent, but reopened it in 1945? ... that Ashton Hawkins arranged for the construction of the West Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, to house the Temple of Dendur? ... that the Malyuk rifle was originally developed as a private venture under a contract with the Security Service of Ukraine? ... that Indonesian translator Ali Audah would often take hours to translate a single word or sentence? ... that the 1972 hymn "Das eine Brot wächst auf vielen Halmen", with an Israeli melody, has been used for Catholic Corpus Christi processions and Protestant Kirchentag conventions? ... that magnetoreception in birds works by quantum effects in their eyes? ... that at the premiere of The Cage, a ballet about female insects preying on their male counterparts, choreographer Jerome Robbins's mother walked out of the theater? 27 April 2022 00:00, 27 April 2022 (UTC) Corp Naomh ... that the 15th-century figures on the Irish reliquary known as the Corp Naomh (pictured) are based in part on a design in the 9th-century Book of Kells? ... that children's writer Patricia MacLachlan kept a small bag of dirt from the prairies as a reminder of her Wyoming roots? ... that the Comoro River, which cuts through the East Timorese capital of Dili, has seen large floods despite often running almost dry? ... that 3D Microcomputers produced and marketed Commodore-branded computers from 1991 until over a year after Commodore's bankruptcy? ... that the choreography of Crystal Pite's ballet The Seasons' Canon is inspired by the movement of tectonic plates? ... that lawyer Carrie Goldberg was inspired to share her experience of sexual violence in Nobody's Victim by her clients, who had entrusted her with their own stories? ... that Claus Leusser, a justice of the German Federal Constitutional Court, served for only four months? ... that a walrus was given his own pontoon to stop him damaging other boats in St Mary's Harbour? 26 April 2022 00:00, 26 April 2022 (UTC) Ethel Ogden ... that Canadian painter Ethel Ogden (pictured) was central to developing china painting within the Fine Arts Department at the Mount Allison Ladies' College? ... that in Arlington County Board v. Richards, the U.S. Supreme Court considered the constitutionality of one of the first American residential zoned parking programs? ... that Ulf Merbold, the first West German in space, grew up in East Germany? ... that judge advocate Julian M. Wright was once a fencer, and President Theodore Roosevelt attended one of his matches in 1902? ... that Ulmus chuchuanus had to be renamed due to another fossil already having its original name? ... that a photograph by Maks Levin, showing destroyed buildings in Kyiv, was featured on the cover of a March 2022 edition of the German magazine Der Spiegel? ... that to convince Canadian regulators that Vancouver could support a new ethnic radio station, the founder of CJVB documented local restaurants and Sikh temples? ... that most of the Chinese in the Chinatown of Phoenix, Arizona, had emigrated from the same village in China's Hoiping County? 25 April 2022 00:00, 25 April 2022 (UTC) Williamsburgh Savings Bank Building ... that though one publication said in 2001 that going to the Williamsburgh Savings Bank Building was like "an act of religious devotion", it was poorly suited for modern uses? ... that legislator Henry Alcazar successfully defended everyone accused of inciting the 1903 Water Riots that burned down the Trinidad and Tobago seat of government? ... that eight sailors on USS Varuna received the Medal of Honor for actions during the Battle of Forts Jackson and St. Philip? ... that the final silent film directed by Giulia Cassini Rizzotto was partly funded by the Vatican and featured Italian aristocrats? ... that a 2020 study concluded that taco pizza is the favorite pizza of Iowa? ... that Khalid ibn Barmak was so close to the first Abbasid caliph, al-Saffah, that his daughter was suckled by al-Saffah's wife? ... that the now-destroyed statue of Alexander Wood was the first LGBT monument in Canada? ... that Mimi Reinhardt typed Schindler's list? 24 April 2022 00:00, 24 April 2022 (UTC) The Keyboard Company numeric keypad ... that The Keyboard Company's numeric keypad (pictured) was praised for not voiding Apple's warranty because it did not require soldering to install? ... that the Baratal limestone in Russia may be one of the oldest atolls in the world? ... that The West Wing's Amy Gardner is said to be the only character on the show with "a genuinely militant attitude towards equality of the genders"? ... that dead cotton is immature or underdeveloped cotton that has poor dye affinity and appears as white specks on a dyed fabric? ... that during a German charity concert for Ukraine, Slovakian singer Judita Nagyová performed a solo in the finale of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony? ... that Elphaba, the main character in Wicked, is named after L. Frank Baum, who wrote the book that inspired Wicked? ... that Carlton Town F.C., now competing at the eighth tier of the English football pyramid, was once denied promotion by a hat-trick scored by future England in contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2022/April responseCode 3 200 