qstkoaeagqhsmctodqtkwcoizatazkwqaqjmrkjo page 10093 Federation of former Spanish Empire provinces in South America (1810–1831) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "United Provinces of the Río de la Plata" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2010) (template removal help) United Provinces of the Río de la Plata (United Provinces of South America) Provincias Unidas del Río de la Plata (Provincias Unidas de Sudamérica) 1810–1831 Top: Flag (1817-1818) Bottom: Flag (1818-1826) Coat of arms Anthem: National Anthem of Argentina Capital Buenos Aires Common languages Spanish Religion Christianity Government Federal constitutional monarchy (1810–1816) Republic (1816–1831) Head of State • 1810–1816 Ferdinand VII of Spain • 1829–1831 Juan Manuel de Rosas Historical era Napoleonic Wars • British invasions of the Río de la Plata 1806–1807 • May Revolution 25 May 1810 • Declaration of Independence 9 July 1816 • Battle of Cepeda End of centralized authority 1 February 1820 • First Presidency 8 February 1826 • Treaty of Montevideo Independence of Uruguay 28 August 1828 • Pacto Federal 4 January 1831 Currency Real (from 1813) Sol (from 1815) Peso fuerte (from 1826) Preceded by Succeeded by Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata Argentine Confederation Bolivia Empire of Brazil Uruguay The United Provinces of the Río de la Plata (Spanish: Provincias Unidas del Río de la Plata), earlier known as the United Provinces of South America (Spanish: Provincias Unidas de Sudamérica), was a name adopted in 1816 by the Congress of Tucumán for the region of South America that declared independence in 1816, with the Sovereign Congress taking place in 1813, during the Argentine War of Independence (1810–1818) that began with the May Revolution in 1810. It originally comprised rebellious territories of the former Spanish Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata dependencies and had Buenos Aires as its capital. The name "Provincias del Río de la Plata" (formally adopted during the Cortes of Cádiz to designate the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata)[1] alludes to the Junta Provisional Gubernativa de las Provincias del Río de la Plata [2] or Primera Junta. It is best known in Argentinean literature as Provincias Unidas del Río de la Plata ("United Provinces of the River Plate" i.e. river of silver), this being the most common name (since 1811) in use for the country until the enactment of the 1826 Constitution. The Argentine National Anthem refers to the state as "the United Provinces of the South". The Constitution of Argentina recognises Provincias Unidas del Río de la Plata as one of the official names of the country, referred to as "Argentine Nation" (Nación Argentina) in modern legislation.[3] Description[edit] The United Provinces of South America were bordered on the south by the sparsely populated territories of the Pampas and Patagonia, home to the Mapuche, Ranquel and Puelche peoples. To the north, the Gran Chaco was populated by the Guaycuru nations. To the northwest, across the Upper Peru, lay the Spanish Viceroyalty of Peru. Across the Andes, to the west, was the Spanish-controlled Captaincy General of Chile. To the northeast was Colonial Brazil, a part of the Portuguese Empire (in 1815, the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves), later the Empire of Brazil in 1821. Government[edit] The change from the Viceroyalty into the United Provinces was not merely a change of governors, but a revolutionary process that would replace the Spanish monarchy with an independent republic. The main influences in this were the Enlightenment in Spain, promoting new ideas, and the Peninsular War that left Spain without a legitimate king after the Abdications of Bayonne. The concept of separation of powers gradually became a tool to prevent despotism.[4]: 12  The new political situation generated great political conflict between the cities for two reasons. First, the vacatio regis of Ferdinand VII and the French King of Spain, Joseph Bonaparte, there was no clear view about who was the king. Some people thought that it passed to other offices of the Spanish monarchy, while others held the notion of the retroversion of the sovereignty to the people: sovereignty returned to the people, who had now the right to self-governance temporally. [4]: 14  But, in 1810 under the establishment of the new doctrine of popular sovereignty throughout the Spanish empire, the Spanish government summoned all the nations of America and Spain, to establish Spanish courts for the whole empire, but on the contrary, the patriots, under the same right of popular sovereignty, thought that any nation, both in Spain and America, had the right to self-government and to establish their own country. History[edit] See also: May Revolution and Argentine war of independence The freedom of the provinces of the Río de la Plata was established through a lengthy process that started in May 1810, when the citizens and militias of Buenos Aires, the capital city of the Spanish Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, ousted the Viceroy Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros in the May Revolution. Although there was not a declaration of independence at the time, and the government that emerged from the revolution declared loyalty to the king Ferdinand VII, in fact it attempted to reorganise the social, political and economic structures of the provinces of the Río de la Plata. As it faced immediate resistance in some quarters (namely the Banda Oriental, under the new Spanish Viceroy Javier de Elío, Córdoba and Santiago de Liniers, the local government of Asunción in Paraguay and, notably, the royalist forces from the Viceroyalty of Perú), the revolution soon turned to be a War of Independence. Battle of Maipú, 1819 In the midst of the war of independence, during the entire 1810–1831 period there were serious conflicts among ever-changing factions regarding the organization of the state and the political aims of the revolutionary governments. These conflicts involved coups d'état, mutinies, politically motivated trials, banishments and imprisonments and finally developed into an outright civil war. United Provinces in the 1820s as understood by political cartographers at the time. 1821: Carte physique et politique de l'Amérique méridionale.[5] 1822: The American Atlas by Carey & Lea. 1825: South America by Fisher. Initial revolutionary governments[edit] Main articles: Primera Junta, Junta Grande, Cry of Asencio, and First Triumvirate (Argentina) See also: Cornelio Saavedra, Mariano Moreno, Juan José Castelli, and Paraguay campaign Ever since the revolution, there were serious conflicts among diverging views regarding the political organization of the provinces. While some advocated a strong and executive central government with little accountability to the regional interests, a position at first favored by the "enlightened" revolutionary and independentist elements, others sought to integrate representatives from the provinces in a larger deliberative assembly. As the latter position gained the upper hand, the Primera Junta grew to incorporate delegates from the provinces in 1811. However, as it became evident that such an arrangement was not effective enough to lead the war efforts, a triumvirate assumed executive powers while the assembly retained some controlling functions. Assembly of the year XIII[edit] United Provinces represented at the 1813 Congress. Main articles: Revolution of October 8, 1812; Second Triumvirate (Argentina); and Assembly of the year XIII See also: Army of the North and Regiment of Mounted Grenadiers Supreme Directorship[edit] Main article: Supreme Director of the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata See also: Army of the Andes and Carlos María de Alvear Declaration of Independence of the United Provinces of South America (1816) Declaration of independence[edit] Main articles: Congress of Tucumán and Argentine declaration of independence See also: Inca Plan and Juan Martín de Pueyrredón Liga Federal[edit] Main articles: Liga Federal and Argentine Civil War The Liga Federal (1815–1820), or Liga de los Pueblos Libres (League of the Free Peoples), was an alliance of provinces in what is now Argentina and Uruguay, organised under democratic federalist ideals strongly advocated by its leader, José Gervasio Artigas. The government of the United Provinces of South America felt threatened by the growing appeal of the Liga Federal, so they did nothing to repel the incoming Portuguese invasion of Misiones Orientales and the Banda Oriental, the stronghold of Artigas. Brazilian General Carlos Frederico Lecor, thanks to their numerical and material superiority, defeated Artigas and his army and occupied Montevideo on January 20, 1817, but the struggle continued for three long years in the countryside. Infuriated by the passivity of Buenos Aires, Artigas declared war on Buenos Aires while he was losing to the Portuguese. On February 1, 1820, Federal League governors Francisco Ramírez of Entre Ríos and Estanislao López of Santa Fe, defeated a Supreme Directorship diminished army, ending the centralized government of the United Provinces, and established a federal agreement with Buenos Aires Province. Similarly, the Federal League effectively came to an end when its constituent provinces rejoined the United Provinces. Artigas, defeated by the Portuguese, retreated to Entre Ríos. From there, he denounced the Treaty of Pilar and entered into conflict with his former ally governor Ramírez, who crushed the remnants of Artigas' army. The former Protector of the Free Peoples was exiled in Paraguay until his death. The Eastern Province was annexed by Portugal to its Brazilian dependences in 1821. Anarchy of the year XX[edit] See also: Argentine Constitution of 1819, Battle of Cepeda (1820), and Treaty of Pilar First presidency[edit] See also: Bernardino Rivadavia War with Brazil contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 78 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/United_Provinces_of_the_R%C3%ADo_de_la_Plata responseCode 3 200 