rciquanqpirctqjcjihavosavgtinkiqoacgqivo length 6 446812 page 10029 Physical effects resulting from activation of the immune system This article needs additional medical references for verification. Please help improve this article by adding appropriate references. Unsourced or poorly sourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Inflammation" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2021) Medical condition Inflammation The cardinal signs of inflammation include: pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function. Some of these indicators can be seen here due to an allergic reaction. Specialty Immunology, rheumatology Symptoms Heat, pain, redness, swelling Complications Asthma, pneumonia, autoimmune diseases Duration Acute: few days Chronic: up to many months, or years Causes Infection, physical injury, autoimmune disorder Inflammation (from Latin: inflammatio) is part of the complex biological response of body tissues to harmful stimuli, such as pathogens, damaged cells, or irritants,[1][2] and is a protective response involving immune cells, blood vessels, and molecular mediators. The function of inflammation is to eliminate the initial cause of cell injury, clear out necrotic cells and tissues damaged from the original insult[clarification needed] and the inflammatory process, and initiate tissue repair. The five cardinal signs are heat, pain, redness, swelling, and loss of function (Latin calor, dolor, rubor, tumor, and functio laesa). Inflammation is a generic response, and therefore it is considered as a mechanism of innate immunity, as compared to adaptive immunity, which is specific for each pathogen.[3] Too little inflammation could lead to progressive tissue destruction by the harmful stimulus (e.g. bacteria) and compromise the survival of the organism. In contrast, too much inflammation, in the form of chronic inflammation, is associated with various diseases, such as hay fever, periodontal disease, atherosclerosis, and osteoarthritis. Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli, and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes (in particular granulocytes) from the blood into the injured tissues. A series of biochemical events propagates and matures the inflammatory response, involving the local vascular system, the immune system, and various cells within the injured tissue. Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation, such as mononuclear cells, and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process. Inflammation has also been classified as Type 1 and Type 2 based on the type of cytokines and helper T cells (Th1 and Th2) involved.[4] Inflammation is not a synonym for infection. Infection describes the interaction between the action of microbial invasion and the reaction of the body's inflammatory response—the two components are considered together when discussing an infection, and the word is used to imply a microbial invasive cause for the observed inflammatory reaction. Inflammation, on the other hand, describes purely the body's immunovascular response—whatever the cause may be. But because of how often the two are correlated, words ending in the suffix -itis (which refers to inflammation) are sometimes informally described as referring to infection. For example, the word urethritis strictly means only "urethral inflammation", but clinical health care providers usually discuss urethritis as a urethral infection because urethral microbial invasion is the most common cause of urethritis. However, the inflammation–infection distinction becomes crucial for situations in pathology and medical diagnosis where inflammation is not driven by microbial invasion, such as the cases of atherosclerosis, trauma, ischemia, and autoimmune diseases (including type III hypersensitivity). Causes[edit] Physical: Burns[5] Frostbite Physical injury, blunt or penetrating[6] Foreign bodies, including splinters, dirt and debris Trauma[5] Ionizing radiation Biological: Infection by pathogens[5] Immune reactions due to hypersensitivity Stress Chemical:[5] Chemical irritants Toxins Alcohol Psychological: Excitement[7] Types[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2023) (template removal help) See also: List of inflammatory disorders and List of types of inflammation by location Appendicitis Bursitis Colitis Cystitis Dermatitis Epididymitis Encephalitis Gingivitis Meningitis Myelitis Myocarditis Nephritis Neuritis Pancreatitis Periodontitis Pharyngitis Phlebitis Prostatitis RSD/CRPS Rhinitis Sinusitis Tendonitis Tonsillitis Urethritis Vasculitis Vaginitis Comparison between acute and chronic inflammation: Acute Chronic Causative agent Bacterial pathogens, injured tissues Persistent acute inflammation due to non-degradable pathogens, viral infection, persistent foreign bodies, or autoimmune reactions Major cells involved neutrophils (primarily), basophils (inflammatory response), and eosinophils (response to helminth worms and parasites), mononuclear cells (monocytes, macrophages) Mononuclear cells (monocytes, macrophages, lymphocytes, plasma cells), fibroblasts Primary mediators Vasoactive amines, eicosanoids IFN-γ and other cytokines, growth factors, reactive oxygen species, hydrolytic enzymes Onset Immediate Delayed Duration Few days Up to many months, or years Outcomes Resolution, abscess formation, chronic inflammation Tissue destruction, fibrosis, necrosis Acute[edit] Acute inflammation occurs immediately upon injury, lasting only a few days.[8] Cytokines and chemokines promote the migration of neutrophils and macrophages to the site of inflammation.[8] Pathogens, allergens, toxins, burns, and frostbite are some of the typical causes of acute inflammation.[8] Toll-like receptors (TLRs) recognize microbial pathogens.[8] Acute inflammation can be a defensive mechanism to protect tissues against injury.[8] Inflammation lasting 2–6 weeks is designated subacute inflammation.[8][9] Cardinal signs[edit] The classic signs and symptoms of acute inflammation:[a] English Latin Redness Rubor Swelling Tumor Heat Calor Pain Dolor Loss of function Functio laesa[b] Acute inflammation is a short-term process, usually appearing within a few minutes or hours and begins to cease upon the removal of the injurious stimulus.[12] It involves a coordinated and systemic mobilization response locally of various immune, endocrine and neurological mediators of acute inflammation. In a normal healthy response, it becomes activated, clears the pathogen and begins a repair process and then ceases.[13] It is characterized by five cardinal signs:[14] The traditional names for signs of inflammation come from Latin: Dolor (pain) Calor (heat) Rubor (redness) Tumor (swelling) Functio laesa (loss of function)[15] The first four (classical signs) were described by Celsus (c. 30 BC–38 AD),[16] while loss of function was probably added later by Galen.[17] However, the addition of this fifth sign has also been ascribed to Thomas Sydenham[18] and Virchow.[12][14] Redness and heat are due to increased blood flow at body core temperature to the inflamed site; swelling is caused by accumulation of fluid; pain is due to the release of chemicals such as bradykinin and histamine that stimulate nerve endings. Loss of function has multiple causes.[14] Acute inflammation of the lung (usually as in response to pneumonia) does not cause pain unless the inflammation involves the parietal pleura, which does have pain-sensitive nerve endings.[14] Acute process[edit] This section needs additional medical references for verification. Please help improve this article by adding appropriate references. Unsourced or poorly sourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Inflammation" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2023) A flowchart depicting the events of acute inflammation.[19] Micrograph showing granulation tissue. H&E stain. The process of acute inflammation is initiated by resident immune cells already present in the involved tissue, mainly resident macrophages, dendritic cells, histiocytes, Kupffer cells and mast cells. These cells possess surface receptors known as pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), which recognize (i.e., bind) two subclasses of molecules: pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). PAMPs are compounds that are associated with various pathogens, but which are distinguishable from host molecules. DAMPs are compounds that are associated with host-related injury and cell damage. At the onset of an infection, burn, or other injuries, these cells undergo activation (one of the PRRs recognize a PAMP or DAMP) and release inflammatory mediators responsible for the clinical signs of inflammation. Vasodilation and its resulting increased blood flow causes the redness (rubor) and increased heat (calor). Increased permeability of the blood vessels results in an exudation (leakage) of plasma proteins and fluid into the tissue (edema), which manifests itself as swelling (tumor). Some of the released mediators such as bradykinin increase the sensitivity to pain (hyperalgesia, dolor). The mediator molecules also alter the blood vessels to permit the migration of leukocytes, mainly neutrophils and macrophages, to flow out of the blood vessels (extravasation) and into the tissue. The neutrophils migrate along a chemotactic gradient created by the local cells to reach the site of injury.[12] The loss of function (functio laesa) is probably the result of a neurological reflex in response to pain. In addition to cell-derived mediators, several acellular biochemical cascade systems—consisting of preformed plasma proteins—act in parallel to init contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 46 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Inflammation responseCode 3 200 