rcnojamaosccsaeouapmuqdgwmogtosifilglofm page 10129 You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Chinese. (November 2023) Click [show] for important translation instructions. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 291 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Chinese Wikipedia article at [[:zh:沃爾諾瓦哈滅門案]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|zh|沃爾諾瓦哈滅門案}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Russian. (November 2023) Click [show] for important translation instructions. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 2,913 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Russian Wikipedia article at [[:ru:Массовое убийство семьи в Волновахе]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|ru|Массовое убийство семьи в Волновахе}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. Volnovakha family murders Part of War crimes in the Russian invasion of Ukraine Location Volnovakha, Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine Date 27 October 2023 Target Civilians Attack type Mass murder Execution Deaths 9 family members of the Kapkanets family, including two children Perpetrators Anton Sopov[1] Stanislav Rau[1] Motive Occupying civilian household[2] v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia On 27 October 2023, two soldiers of the Russian Armed Forces killed a family of nine civilians after breaking into their house in Volnovakha, during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Nine bodies have been found at the location, including two children aged 5 and 9 years old.[3][4] Volnovakha has been within Russian-occupied territories since Russia's capture of the city in March 2022.[2] According to Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office, Russian soldiers demanded from a family to leave their home because they intended to accommodate a Russian military unit there, but the family refused. A few days later, Russian soldiers returned and shot all the family members in the house. Russian prosecutors announced they have started an investigation of the Russian soldiers suspected in the murders.[2] Photos from the crime scenes included family members shot dead in their beds, some embracing each other, and blood on the walls. Mikhail Savva of the Ukrainian human rights organization Center for Civil Liberties pointed out that the Volnovakha murders are a rare case of Moscow admitting murders of civilians by their own forces, something they have been almost always denying despite numerous evidence, but that it was likely just Kremlin "feigning concern about the fate of civilians, while ignoring the many other crimes".[5] See also[edit] Volnovakha bus attack Borozdinovskaya operation Bucha massacre zachistka References[edit] ^ a b Censor.NET (2023-10-31). "Russians detain two of their soldiers on suspicion of killing a family in Volnovakha. VIDEO". Censor.NET. Retrieved 2023-11-01. ^ a b c Kathleen Magramo, Yulia Kesaieva (31 October 2023). "Ukrainian family of nine shot dead in their sleep in Russian-occupied Donetsk". CNN. ^ Nate Ostiller (2023-10-30). "Prosecutor's Office: Russian forces murder 9 family members in occupied Volnovakha". The Kyiv Independent. Retrieved 2023-11-01. ^ Vitaly Shevchenko; Jaroslav Lukiv (2023-10-31). "Ukraine war: Whole family shot dead in Russian-occupied Ukrainian town". BBC News. Retrieved 2023-11-01. ^ Constant Meheut (31 October 2023). "Russia Detains Two Soldiers Suspected of Killing 9 Civilians". The New York Times. Retrieved 2 November 2023. v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Part of the Russo-Ukrainian War Overview General Outline Timeline Prelude (February – April 2022) (April – August 2022) (August – November 2022) (November 2022 – June 2023) (June 2023 – August 2023) (September 2023 – present) Aerial warfare Defense lines Foreign fighters Information war Naval warfare Legality Map Order of battle Peace negotiations Proposed no-fly zone Red lines Reparations Territorial control Women Prelude Reactions Disinformation Ukraine bioweapons conspiracy theory Ukraine and weapons of mass destruction 2021 Russia–United States summit 2021 Black Sea incident Belarus–European Union border crisis "On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians" Crimea Platform Zapad 2021 Ukraine cyberattacks Union Resolve 2022 Stanytsia Luhanska kindergarten bombing British–Polish–Ukrainian trilateral pact Evacuation of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Mobilization in Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR "Address concerning the events in Ukraine" "On conducting a special military operation" Background Dissolution of the Soviet Union 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine historical background Annexation of Crimea reactions War in Donbas 2022 timeline Minsk agreements humanitarian situation international recognition of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Putinism Foundations of Geopolitics Novorossiya Ruscism Russian irredentism Russian imperialism Foreign relations Russia–Ukraine Belarus–Ukraine Belarus–Russia Russia–United States Russia–NATO Ukraine–NATO enlargement of NATO eastward expansion controversy in Russia open door policy Military engagements Southern Ukraine Snake Island campaign Siege of Mariupol Battle of Kherson Battle of Melitopol Battle of Mykolaiv Battle of Enerhodar Battles of Voznesensk Battle of Huliaipole Battle of Orikhiv Battle of Davydiv Brid Kherson counteroffensive Liberation of Kherson Dnieper campaign Destruction of the Kakhovka Dam Eastern Ukraine Battle of Avdiivka Battle of Marinka Battle of Volnovakha Battle of Kharkiv Battle of Izium Battle of Rubizhne Battle of Popasna Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Battle of Kreminna Battle of the Siverskyi Donets Battle of Sievierodonetsk Battle of Toshkivka First Battle of Lyman Battle of Sviatohirsk Battle of Lysychansk Battle of Siversk Battle of Pisky Battle  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Volnovakha_massacre responseCode 3 200 