rcssfoyimcxgkkdizobmoshibaegpowkukqobmvg length 7 1054508 page 10121 Abrahamic religion founded by Muhammad This article is about the religion. For other uses, see Islam (disambiguation). Islam الِإسْلَام‎ al-'Islām The Kaaba at Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, the holiest Islamic site Type Universal religion Classification Abrahamic Scripture Quran Theology Monotheistic Language Classical Arabic Territory Muslim world Founder Muhammad Origin CE 610; 1413 years ago (610) Jabal al-Nour, Hejaz, Arabia Separated from Arabian polytheism Number of followers c. 1.9 billion (individually referred to as Muslims, collectively referred to as the ummah) Part of a series on Islam Beliefs Oneness of God Prophets Revealed Books Angels Day of Resurrection Predestination Practices Profession of Faith Prayer Almsgiving Fasting Pilgrimage Texts Foundations Quran Sunnah (Hadith, Sirah) Tafsir (exegesis) Aqidah (creed) Qisas al-Anbiya ("Stories of the Prophets") Mathnawi (Poems) Fiqh (jurisprudence) Sharia (law) History Timeline Muhammad Ahl al-Bayt Sahabah Rashidun Caliphate Imamate Medieval Islamic science Spread of Islam Succession to Muhammad Culture and society Academics Animals Art Association football Calendar Children Circumcision Demographics Diaspora Denominations Sunni Shia Economics Education Ethics Exorcism Feminism Festivals Finance Madrasa Moral teachings Mosque Music Mysticism Philosophy Poetry Politics Proselytizing Science Sexuality LGBT Slavery Social welfare Women Related topics Apostasy Criticism Muhammad Quran Hadith Other religions Islamism Violence terrorism war Islamophobia Jihad Jihadism Laws of war Glossary Islam portal v t e Islam (/ˈɪslɑːm/; Arabic: ۘالِإسْلَام, al-ʾIslām [ʔɪsˈlæːm] ⓘ, transl. 'Submission [to the will of God]') is an Abrahamic monotheistic religion centered on the Quran and the teachings of Muhammad, the religion's founder. Adherents of Islam, called Muslims, number approximately 1.9 billion globally and are the world's second-largest religious population after Christians. Muslims believe that Islam is the complete and universal version of a primordial faith that was revealed many times through earlier prophets, the most important being Adam (believed to be the first man), Noah (Nuh), Abraham (Ibrahim), Moses (Musa), and Jesus (Isa). Muslims consider the Quran to be the verbatim word of God and the unaltered, final revelation. Alongside the Quran, Muslims also believe in previous revelations, such as the Tawrat (the Torah; from Hebrew: תּוֹרָה‎), the Zabur (Psalms), and the Injeel (Gospel). They also consider Muhammad as the main and final Islamic prophet, through whom the religion was completed. The teachings and normative examples of Muhammad, called the sunnah, documented in accounts called the hadith, provide a constitutional model for Muslims. Islam teaches that God (Allah) is one and incomparable. It states that there will be a "Final Judgment" wherein the righteous will be rewarded in paradise (jannah) and the unrighteous will be punished in hell (jahannam). The Five Pillars—considered obligatory acts of worship—comprise the Islamic oath and creed (shahada); daily prayers (salah); almsgiving (zakat); fasting (sawm) in the month of Ramadan; and a pilgrimage (hajj) to Mecca. Islamic law, sharia, touches on virtually every aspect of life, from banking and finance and welfare to men's and women's roles and the environment. The two main religious festivals are Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha. The two holiest sites in Islam in descending order are Masjid al-Haram in Mecca and Al-Masjid an-Nabawi in Medina, both located in Saudi Arabia. The religion of Islam originated in Mecca about 610 CE. Muslims believe this is when Muhammad began receiving revelation. By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam. Muslim rule expanded outside Arabia under the Rashidun Caliphate and the subsequent Umayyad Caliphate ruled from the Iberian Peninsula to the Indus Valley. In the Islamic Golden Age, mostly during the reign of the Abbasid Caliphate, much of the Muslim world experienced a scientific, economic and cultural flourishing. The expansion of the Muslim world involved various states and caliphates as well as extensive trade and religious conversion as a result of Islamic missionary activities (dawah), and through conquests. The two main Islamic branches are Sunni Islam (85–90%) and Shia Islam (10–15%). While Sunni–Shia split initially arose from disagreements over the succession to Muhammad, they grew to cover a broader dimension, both theologically and juridically. Muslims make up a majority of the population in 49 countries. Approximately 12% of the world's Muslims live in Indonesia, the most populous Muslim-majority country; 31% live in South Asia; 20% live in the Middle East–North Africa; and 15% live in sub-Saharan Africa. Muslim communities are also present in the Americas, China, and Europe. Due largely to a higher fertility rate than that of other religions, Islam is the world's fastest-growing major religious group, and if current trends hold, it could slightly surpass Christianity as the world's largest religion by the end of the 21st century. Etymology See also: Muslims § Etymology In Arabic, Islam (Arabic: إسلام, lit. 'submission [to God]')[1][2][3] is the verbal noun of Form IV originating from the verb سلم (salama), from the triliteral root س-ل-م (S-L-M), which forms a large class of words mostly relating to concepts of submission, safeness, and peace.[4] In a religious context, it refers to the total surrender to the will of God.[5] A Muslim (مُسْلِم), the word for a follower of Islam,[6] is the active participle of the same verb form, and means "submitter (to God)" or "one who surrenders (to God)". In the Hadith of Gabriel, Islam is presented as one part of a triad that also includes imān (faith), and ihsān (excellence).[7][8] Islam itself was historically called Mohammedanism in the English-speaking world. This term has fallen out of use and is sometimes said to be offensive, as it suggests that a human being, rather than God, is central to Muslims' religion.[9] Articles of faith Main articles: Aqidah and Iman The Islamic creed (aqidah) requires belief in six articles: God, angels, revelation, prophets, the Day of Resurrection, and the divine predestination.[10] God Calligraphy showing the word Allah in Arabic in Hagia Sophia, Istanbul Turkey Main article: God in Islam The central concept of Islam is tawḥīd (Arabic: توحيد), the oneness of God. It is usually thought of as a precise monotheism, but is also panentheistic in Islamic mystical teachings.[11][12] God is seen as incomparable and without partners such as in the Christian Trinity, and associating partners to God or attributing God's attributes to others is seen as idolatory, called shirk. God is seen as transcendent of creation and so is beyond comprehension. Thus, Muslims are not iconodules and do not attribute forms to God. God is instead described and referred to by several names or attributes, the most common being Ar-Rahmān (الرحمان) meaning "The Entirely Merciful," and Ar-Rahīm (الرحيم) meaning "The Especially Merciful" which are invoked at the beginning of most chapters of the Quran.[13][14] Islam teaches that the creation of everything in the universe was brought into being by God's command as expressed by the wording, "Be, and it is,"[i][1] and that the purpose of existence is to worship God.[15] He is viewed as a personal god[1] and there are no intermediaries, such as clergy, to contact God. Consciousness and awareness of God is referred to as Taqwa. Allāh is a term with no plural or gender being ascribed to it and is also used by Muslims and Arabic-speaking Christians and Jews in reference to God, whereas ʾilāh (إله) is a term used for a deity or a god in general.[16] Angels A 16th century Siyer-i Nebi image of the angel Gabriel visiting Muhammad Main article: Angels in Islam Angels (Arabic: ملك, malak) are beings described in the Quran[17] and hadith.[18] They are described as created to worship God and also to serve in other specific duties such as communicating revelations from God, recording every person's actions, and taking a person's soul at the time of death. They are described as being created variously from 'light' (nūr)[19][20][21] or 'fire' (nār).[22][23][24][25] Islamic angels are often represented in anthropomorphic forms combined with supernatural images, such as wings, being of great size or wearing heavenly articles.[26][27][28][29] Common characteristics for angels include a lack of bodily needs and desires, such as eating and drinking.[30] Some of them, such as Gabriel (Jibrīl) and Michael (Mika'il), are mentioned by name in the Quran. Angels play a significant role in literature about the Mi'raj, where Muhammad encounters several angels during his journey through the heavens.[18] Further angels have often been featured in Islamic eschatology, theology and philosophy.[31] Scriptures A Quran manuscript resting on a rehal, a book rest for the holy text Main articles: Islamic holy books, Quran, and Wahy See also: History of the Quran The pre-eminent holy text of Islam is the Quran. Muslims believe that the verses of the Quran were revealed to Muhammad by God, through the archangel Gabriel, on multiple occasions between 610 CE[32][33] and 632, the year Muhammad died.[34] While Muhammad was alive, these revelations were written down by his companions, although the primary method of transmission was orally through memorization.[35] The Quran is divided into 114 chapters (sūrah) which contain a combined 6,236 verses (āyāt). The chronologically earlier chapters, revealed at Mecca, are concerned primarily with spiritual topics, while the later Medinan chapters discuss more social and legal issues relevant to the Muslim community.[1][36] Muslim jurists consult the hadith ('accounts'), or the written record of Muhammad's life, to both supplement the Quran and assist with its interpretation. The science of Quranic commentary and exege contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 39 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Islam responseCode 3 200 