rgiimamswahayexgfawaeenogscismjkkmgocgva length 6 109645 page 7443 2023 military engagement in Israel Battle of Sufa outpost Part of 2023 Israel–Hamas war Date 7 October 2023 Location Sufa, Israel Result Israeli victory[1] Belligerents Hamas Israel Commanders and leaders Mohammad Abu A'ali (deputy commander, Southern Naval Division) (POW) Major "H."[2] Lt. Col. Eli Ginzburg (KIA) Units involved Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades Israel Defense Forces Shayetet 13 1st "Golani" Brigade (initial assault)[1] Casualties and losses 60 killed 26 captured At least 2 killed On October 7, 2023, as part of the Hamas-led Operation Al-Aqsa Flood, militants overran an IDF outpost in the village of Sufa, which borders the Gaza Strip.[3][4] Initial ground assault On October 7, 2023, Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel at approximately 6 a.m., firing rockets and conducting a major ground and air assault against Israeli targets around the Gaza Strip, engaging civilians and military personnel alike.[5][6][7] Immediately after the beginning of the ground incursion, militants entered the kibbutz of Sufa, only facing resistance from a group five armed civilians with no support from the military.[3] Later in the morning, Hamas released a video of their militants taking over a military outpost located near Sufa, showing the bodies of Israeli soldiers they had killed.[8] After the outpost was overrun, some of the Golani Brigade soldiers stationed there evaded being captured or killed by hiding inside a bunker on the base.[1] Retaking of the outpost Shortly after the initial assault by Hamas, Shayetet 13 was ordered to retake the outpost and work in conjunction with other units in the area to rescue hostages and regain control.[1] Reservists from the elite unit were deployed to the battle from their base in Atlit.[2] The Israeli naval commandos were inserted by helicopter, and after a skirmish with Hamas militants, successfully regained control of the outpost and took care of the wounded.[9][10] Shayetet 13 was successful in saving 250 hostages.[2] Casualties Over 60 Hamas militants were killed and 26 captured with the Israeli side suffering at least 2 casualties, Lieutenant Colonel Eli Ginzburg and First Sergeant Ofek Russo.[11] The IDF also successfully captured the deputy commander of Hamas' southern naval brigade, Muhammad Abu Ghali.[1] See also List of military engagements during the 2023 Israel–Hamas war Outline of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war References ^ a b c d e "The Battle for Sufa Outpost: How one of Israel's elite units rescued fellow soldiers from Hamas terrorists". All Israel News. 12 October 2023. Archived from the original on 19 October 2023. Retrieved 16 October 2023. ^ a b c Zitun, Yoav (12 October 2023). "Watch: Israeli commandos lock horns with Hamas terrorists in daring operation". Ynetnews. Retrieved 9 November 2023. ^ a b "Residents of towns near Gaza Strip beg for help as they fight off terrorists". The Times of Israel. 7 October 2023. ^ "Why the Palestinian group Hamas launched an attack on Israel? All to know". Al Jazeera. Retrieved 9 November 2023. ^ "Reuters denies any suggestion it had prior knowledge of Oct. 7 Hamas attack on Israel". Reuters. 9 November 2023. Retrieved 9 November 2023. The photographs published by Reuters were taken two hours after Hamas fired rockets across southern Israel and more than 45 minutes after Israel said gunmen had crossed the border. ^ "Netanyahu says Israel is 'at war' after Hamas launches surprise air and ground attack from Gaza". CNN. 7 October 2023. Retrieved 9 November 2023. ^ "Hamas surprise attack out of Gaza stuns Israel and leaves hundreds dead in fighting, retaliation". AP News. 7 October 2023. Retrieved 9 November 2023. ^ "Videos show new details on how Hamas launched surprise assault on Israel". CNN.com. 9 October 2023. Retrieved 9 November 2023. ^ "Israel war: See the recapture of the Sufa Military Outpost in southern Israel". Washington Examiner. 12 October 2023. Retrieved 9 November 2023. ^ "Israeli Shayetet 13 Special Forces Seize Sufa Military Post Near Gaza Border | Defense News October 2023 Global Security army industry | Defense Security global news industry army year 2023 | Archive News year". www.armyrecognition.com. Retrieved 9 November 2023. ^ "Video: Israel Army's Operation To Rescue Hostages From Hamas Bunker". NDTV.com. Retrieved 9 November 2023. v t e 2023 Israel–Hamas war Timeline Outline Battles Hamas attack on Israel Re'im Sderot Sufa Zikim Israeli invasion of Gaza Beit Hanoun Gaza City Israel–Lebanon border clashes Israeli incursions into the West Bank Jenin incursion Tulkarm incursion 7 October massacres Re'im music festival Netiv HaAsara Alumim Be'eri Ein HaShlosha Holit Kfar Aza Kissufim Nahal Oz Nir Oz Nirim Yakhini Nir Yitzhak Attacks Health facilities Al-Ahli Arab Hospital explosion reactions Al-Shifa Hospital siege ambulance airstrike Refugee camps Jabalia airstrikes 31 October Al-Shati airstrike Al-Maghazi refugee camp airstrike Religious structures Church of Saint Porphyrius airstrike Al-Ansar Mosque airstrike Sabra mosque airstrike Schools UNRWA school airstrike Al-Fakhoora school airstrike Osama bin Zaid school airstrike Al-Buraq school airstrike Al-Falah School airstrike Others Hajji Tower airstrike Palestinians evacuating Gaza City General topics Kidnappings Israeli blockade of Gaza Palestinian rocket attacks Palestinian tunnel warfare anti-tunnel barrier Gaza–Israel conflict Iran–Israel proxy conflict Use of human shields by Hamas Houthi involvement Taba and Nuweiba drone attacks Women Effects Israeli war cabinet‎ Economic impact Evacuations Operation Ajay Northern Gaza Humanitarian crisis Mass arrests Media coverage Disinformation Pallywood War crimes Reactions Cancellation of the 2023 MTV EMA Denial of Hamas atrocities Diplomatic impact Islamic Summit Conference Kidnapped from Israel UNGAR ES-10/21 Security Council Resolution 2712 US support for Israel Arab Islamic summit Discrimination Antisemitism Riots in the North Caucasus Anti-Palestinianism Islamophobia Violent incidents Killing of Wadea al-Fayoume Killing of Paul Kessler Protests United States Writers Against the War on Gaza National March on Washington: Free Palestine March for Israel DNC protests Casualties Israel Security forces Alim Abdallah Jayar Davidov Eli Ginsberg Salman Habaka Roi Levy Izhar Peled Yonatan Steinberg Civilians Lior Asulin Hayim Katsman Ofir Libstein Shani Louk Aner Shapira Vivian Silver Yahav Winner Palestine Fighters Fouad Abu Butihan [ar] Jihad Shehadeh [ar] Tulkarm Battalion [ar] Rafat Abu Hilal Popular Resistance Hamas Omar Daraghmeh Abdul Fatah Dukhan Mohammed Dababish Ahmed Ghandour Osama Mazini Jihad Muheisen Murad Abu Murad Ayman Nofal Jamila al-Shanti Ali Al Qadi Civilians Ahmad Bahar Rashid Dabour [ar] Omar Ferwana Hiba Abu Nada Ali Nasman Ibrahim al-Astal Omar Abu Shawish Wael Al Zard Mohamed al-Dalou Mohammed Shabir Hassan Zuaiter Ibrahim Qusaya Hammam Alloh Heba Zaqout Journalists Issam Abdallah Yaniv Zohar Roy Edan Violence Deaths Related people Oded Lifshitz [he] Wael Al-Dahdouh Plestia Alaqad Nimrod Aloni Noa Argamani Hersh Goldberg-Polin Motaz Azaiza Bisan Owda Inbal Rabin-Lieberman Amir Tibon Other topics Abducted and Missing Families Forum Al Qarara Cultural Museum Al-Saqqa House [ar] Bearing Witness "Policy paper: Options for a policy regarding Gaza's civilian population" 2023 attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq and Syria Casualties of Israeli attacks on the Gaza Strip Category contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Battle_of_Sufa responseCode 3 200 