rgsotiuoiiogrgweuifozaeevssaaqbghggmoeog length 6 208112 page 10013 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 20 November 2023 00:00, 20 November 2023 (UTC) Scene from The Rose Garden of Love ... that Nusrati attributes the virtues of a good ruler to his patron Ali Adil Shah II in The Rose Garden of Love (manuscript scene pictured)? ... that a Twitter account became a major source on what was happening during the 2022 COVID-19 protests in China? ... that Jim Hobbins played two years of professional football, spaced apart by 11 years? ... that Baghdad governor Ḥassan Pasha bought the slave who married his granddaughter and went on to become governor of the same city? ... that University of Nebraska alumnus M. Khalid Roashan helped draft the 1964 Constitution of Afghanistan? ... that the authors of The Neanderthals Rediscovered learned that their book proposal had been accepted on the same day they took their twin sons home from hospital? ... that Władysław Umiński has been called the "Polish Jules Verne"? ... that current NHL player Alex Laferriere refused to try out ice skating at a young age, and only did so when bribed with Skittles? 19 November 2023 00:00, 19 November 2023 (UTC) "The Vatican Rag" by Tom Lehrer ... that some Catholics considered Tom Lehrer's "The Vatican Rag" (audio featured) to be blasphemous? ... that Hilda Hilst impersonated a journalist to meet Marlon Brando, and asked him about Franz Kafka's works? ... that after the Iraqi government lost control of its northern territories following the 1991 Gulf War, the Legislative Council of the Autonomous Kurdistan Region was based in Baghdad? ... that the killing of hundreds of thousands of Soviet civilians by starvation in the siege of Leningrad was ruled not criminal by an American court? ... that Stella Alexander, the first female mayor of Issaquah, was nicknamed "Madame Mussolini" by her detractors? ... that Canadian photographer and architectural activist Brian Merrett's works prompted the preservation of Montreal's Shaughnessy House, now the Canadian Centre for Architecture? ... that Susan Murabana created Africa's first permanent planetarium? ... that @NYT_first_said's most popular tweet, as of 2019, was simply "shithole"? 18 November 2023 00:00, 18 November 2023 (UTC) An adult dwarf pufferfish ... that at a maximum standard length of roughly 2 cm (0.8 in), dwarf pufferfish are some of the smallest pufferfish in the world? ... that Swiss athlete Clara Thalmann arrived in Barcelona to compete in the People's Olympiad but ended up fighting in the Spanish Civil War? ... that Hende's Hut on Roberts Point Track, a tramping track in New Zealand, originally had no windows? ... that soprano Rachel Yakar, who received international attention in 1977 as Poppea with Nikolaus Harnoncourt, was also described as an "ideal" Mélisande and "a Mozartian at heart and in style"? ... that in its first full month on the air, an Idaho TV station had the highest prime-time viewing share of any independent station in the United States? ... that in the 1909 election to the city council of Surabaya, less than 1 percent of the population was enrolled to vote? ... that each performance of the Tale of the Moon Cuckoo lasted for an entire month? ... that the Saikabo Korean restaurant chain in Japan suffered a 30% drop in sales after the South Korean president visited the disputed Liancourt Rocks? 17 November 2023 00:00, 17 November 2023 (UTC) Henry, the London Bridge station pipe organ ... that anyone can play Henry (pictured) at London Bridge? ... that Turku remained the largest city in Finland after three quarters of it burned down? ... that sessions of This War of Mine: The Board Game can last over five hours and often end in the deaths of all characters? ... that the title of "Shinzō wo Sasageyo!", the opening theme song for season two of Attack on Titan, comes from an in-universe salute and battle cry? ... that according to a book by a friend of the Columbine shooters, students at Columbine High School would joke that their school was next for a mass shooting? ... that authorities said the killing of Wadea al-Fayoume in Illinois was a response to the 2023 Israel–Hamas war? ... that the city council of Bandung in the Dutch East Indies initially met at the site of a former coffee-packing factory? ... that when he was in the Royal New Zealand Air Force, future politician Tim Costley starred in a YouTube video that joked about having sex with sheep? 16 November 2023 00:00, 16 November 2023 (UTC) Retable of the Virgin of Montserrat by Bartolomé Bermejo ... that the Retable of the Virgin of Montserrat (pictured) was commissioned by a merchant, perhaps as a sign of gratitude for his safe return from a shipwrecked journey from Savona to Valencia? ... that Jim Rich served as editor-in-chief of the Daily News twice? ... that the site of Hirbemerdon Tepe was initially inhabited in the Chalcolithic and continued to be populated until the Ottoman Empire? ... that Flathead Lake Biological Station can detect invasive aquatic species in real-time using eDNA technology? ... that the Wantage Code, a record of laws promulgated by the English king Æthelred the Unready and his councillors around 997, may provide the earliest description of a jury of presentment? ... that in the Russian Far East, there is a population of North Koreans in Kamchatka that now aligns itself with South Korea? ... that New Zealand politician Tom Rutherford is a firefighter and hockey umpire? ... that later pressings of the soundtrack of the soft porn film The Stud replaced Manfred Mann's Earth Band's "Davy's on the Road Again" after a journalist blabbed its presence to the band's keyboardist? 15 November 2023 00:00, 15 November 2023 (UTC) Field of Wyethia amplexicaulis in bloom ... that the scenic fields of northern wyethia (pictured) found in the western United States are sometimes a sign that an area has been overgrazed? ... that the Data Colada bloggers drew attention to the replication crisis by exposing faulty social science research? ... that the FBS college football player Tre Harris set his school's single-game record for most receiving touchdowns in his debut? ... that a 1950s album of frog calls developed a cult following? ... that historically, native mercury was extracted from rocks mined in Idrija by washing them in the stream Nikova? ... that some of the optics for the James Webb Space Telescope were made at the NETPark science park in northern England? ... that professor Ruth Ann Davis made the largest-ever single contribution to Potomac State College of West Virginia University to support nursing scholarships in memory of her mother? ... that cross-site leaks can be used to gain information about your web-browsing habits? 14 November 2023 00:00, 14 November 2023 (UTC) Isabelle Urquhart, c. 1892 ... that Broadway actress Isabelle Urquhart (pictured) started a fashion trend when she decided to reveal her figure on stage by not wearing petticoats? ... that Jewish tartans have been made for the Jewish community of Scotland? ... that to combat water privatization in Bolivia, Freddy Huayta joined a "coordinator"—a loose-knit alliance of organizations united around a single cause? ... that "Mir nach, spricht Christus, unser Held" (Follow me, says Christ, our hero) is a Christian hymn in German with a text by Angelus Silesius that uses sayings of Jesus in direct speech? ... that shortly after a missile strike on the Russian Black Sea Fleet headquarters, Oleksiy Danilov said  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions responseCode 3 200 