rkeiyatsrmocuifgasxitgqkeetauetasawqegzi length 6 101523 page 7183 State University in Bihar This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Lalit Narayan Mithila University" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2014) (template removal help) Lalit Narayan Mithila University Type Public Established 1972 (51 years ago) (1972) Chancellor Governor of Bihar Vice-Chancellor Professor Surendra Pratap Singh Location Darbhanga, Bihar , India Campus Urban Website lnmu.ac.in The Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), formerly Mithila University, is a public university in India. Began in 1972, the university initially functioned from the Mohanpur House at Sara Mohanpur village of Darbhanga-Sakri route. In 1975, it was shifted to the campus belonging to Raj Darbhanga. The university is in Darbhanga town, Mithila, an ancient cultural region of North India lies between the lower range of the Himalayas and the Ganges river. The university imparts education in fields such as humanities, social science, life science, commerce, and medicine, with both undergraduate and postgraduate courses. More than 400 faculties are engaged in teaching and research. The institute has a residential campus of about 230 acres with modern facilities and support services for its students and faculty. The university has the privilege of having major Students' union as NSUI , AISF, JAAP JDU RJD , ABVP Student Unions. Colleges[edit] Its jurisdiction extends over 4 districts -Begusarai, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Samastipur. Constituent colleges[edit] College Location A.N.D. College Shahpur Patori, Samastipur R L S R S M Degree College Shivaji Nagar, Samastipur A.P.S.M. College Barauni, Begusarai B. M. A. College Baheri, Darbhanga B. M. College Rahika, Madhubani Bali Ram Bhagat College Samastipur S B S S College Begusarai Chandradhari Mithila College Darbhanga Chandramukhi Bhola College Deorh, Ghoghardiha, Madhubani C. M. J. College Donwarihat, Khutauna, Madhubani C. M. Science College, Darbhanga Darbhanga C. M. College Darbhanga D.B. College Jainagar D. B. K. N. College Narhan Dr. Karpoori Bishweshwar Das College Tajpur, Samastipur G. D. College Begusarai G.K.P.D College Karpoorigram, Samastipur G. M. R. D. College Mohanpur H. P. S. College Madhepur, Darbhanga Janta Koshi College Biraul, Darbhanga J. M. D. P. L. College Madhubani Jagdish Nandan College Madhubani J. N. College, Nehra Nehra, Darbhanga Kunwar Singh College Darbhanga K. V. Science College Uchchaith, Benipatti, Madhubani L. N. Janta College Jhanjharpur, Madhubani Maharani Kalyani College Laheriasarai, Darbhanga M. K. S. College Trimuhan(Chandauna), Darbhanga M. L. S. College Sarisabpahi, Madhubani M. L. S. M. College Darbhanga M. R. M. College Darbhanga Marwari college Darbhanga Millat College Laheriasarai, Darbhanga R. B. College Dalsingsarai, Samastipur R. B. S. College Andaur, Mohiuddinnagar R. C. S. College Manjhaul R. k. College Madhubani R. N. A. R. College Samastipur Rash Narayan College Pandaul (Madhubani) S. K. Mahila College Begusarai Samastipur College Samastipur Uma Pandey College Pusa, Samastipur U. R. College Rosera, Samastipur Vishweshwar Singh Janta College Rajnagar, Madhubani Women's College Samastipur M.M.T.M. COLLAGE Darbhanga Affiliated Colleges[edit] Name Location Ayachi Mithila Mahila College Bahera, Darbhanga Bahera College Bahera, Darbhanga C R College Kishanpur, Samastipur Dev Narayan Yadav College Madhubani K S R College Sarairanjan, Samastipur Kunwar Singh College Laheriasarai, Darbhanga Lohiya Charan Singh College Darbhanga Mahatma Gandhi College Darbhanga Mithila Mahila College Darbhanga Mithila Minority Dental College & Hospital Darbhanga Maharaja Mahesh Thakur Mithila College Darbhanga Maharaja Rameswar Singh Memorial College Anandpur, Darbhanga Nagendra Jha Mahila College Laheriasarai, Darbhanga P D J K College Andhrathari, Madhubani P L M College Jhanjharpur, Madhubani Qaji Ahmad Degree College Jale, Darbhanga Ram Ballabh Jalan College Darbhanga R C S Smarak College Bihat, Begusarai R L S R S M Degree College Shivaji Nagar, Samastipur S K College Thatiya, Samastipur S M J College Khajedih, Madhubani S M R C K College Samastipur Vidhi Mahavidyalaya Samastipur Lutan Jha College Nanur I.B.M. Darbhanga C M B college Deorh, Ghoghardiha Madhubani Departments[edit] Department of Ancient Indian History Department of Bio-technology Department of Botany Department of Physics Department of Chemistry Department of Commerce & Business Administration Department of Economics Department of English Department of Hindi Department of Geography Department of Home Science Department of Maithili Department of Political Science Department of Psychology Department of Sanskrit Department of Sociology Department of Sports & Culture Department of Urdu Department of Zoology Department of Mathematics Department of Music and Dramatics Department of Sports Department of Philosophy Major Buildings[edit] Nagendra Jha Stadium Jubilee Hall Nargauna Palace Gandhi Guest House Muiltipurpose Hall Notable alumni[edit] Gopal Jee Thakur, Member of Parliament From Darbhanga (Lok Sabha Constituency) Ram Baran Yadav, first president of Nepal Simon Britto Rodrigues, Former Member of the Kerala Legislative Assembly Subrata Roy[1] Notable faculty alumni Saket Kushwaha Vice Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University. Former Vice Chancellor of Lalit Narayan Mithila University[2][3] References[edit] ^ "LNMU awards D.Litt to Sahara Chief". ^ "Prof. Saket Kushwaha at Banaras Hindu University". new.bhu.ac.in. Banaras Hindu University. Retrieved 12 September 2020. ^ "Prof Saket Kushwaha appointed new VC of RGU". Business Standard India. 2 October 2018. Retrieved 12 September 2020. External links[edit] Official website 26°09′40″N 85°53′47″E﻿ / ﻿26.1610°N 85.8965°E﻿ / 26.1610; 85.8965 v t e Universities in Bihar, India State universities Aryabhatta Knowledge University Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University Bihar Agricultural University Bihar Animal Sciences University Bihar Engineering University Bihar University of Health Sciences Chanakya National Law University Jai Prakash University Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University Lalit Narayan Mithila University Magadh University Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University Munger University Nalanda Open University Patliputra University Patna University Purnea University Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University Veer Kunwar Singh University Central universities Central University of South Bihar Mahatma Gandhi Central University Nalanda University Dr. Rajendra Prasad Central Agriculture University Deemed universities Nava Nalanda Mahavihara Private universities Al-Karim University Amity University, Patna Dr. C.V. Raman University, Bihar Gopal Narayan Singh University K. K. University Mata Gujri University Sandip University, Sijoul Portals: India Education Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF National United States This article about a university or college in Bihar, India is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 66 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Lalit_Narayan_Mithila_University responseCode 3 200 