rkmoyabkegbiikeixqemrqroialkuooovmrceshs length 6 269493 page 10059 Delineation and characterization of Martian regions This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Areography" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2012) (template removal help) High-resolution colorized map of Mars based on Viking orbiter images. Surface frost and water ice fog brighten the impact basin Hellas to the right of lower center; Syrtis Major just above it is darkened by winds that sweep dust off its basaltic surface. Residual north and south polar ice caps are shown at upper and lower right as they appear in early summer and at minimum size, respectively. Areography, also known as the geography of Mars, is a subfield of planetary science that entails the delineation and characterization of regions on Mars.[1][2][3] Areography is mainly focused on what is called physical geography on Earth; that is the distribution of physical features across Mars and their cartographic representations. In April 2023, The New York Times reported an updated global map of Mars based on images from the Hope spacecraft.[4] A related, but much more detailed, global Mars map was released by NASA on 16 April 2023.[5] History[edit] Main article: History of Mars observation Map of Mars by Giovanni Schiaparelli. North is at the top of this map; however, in most maps of Mars drawn before space exploration the convention among astronomers was to put south at the top because the telescopic image of a planet is inverted. The first detailed observations of Mars were from ground-based telescopes. The history of these observations are marked by the oppositions of Mars, when the planet is closest to Earth and hence is most easily visible, which occur every couple of years. Even more notable are the perihelic oppositions of Mars which occur approximately every 16 years, and are distinguished because Mars is closest to earth and Jupiter perihelion making it even closer to Earth. In September 1877, (a perihelic opposition of Mars occurred on September 5), Italian astronomer Giovanni Schiaparelli published the first detailed map of Mars. These maps notably contained features he called canali ("channels"), that were later shown to be an optical illusion. These canali were supposedly long straight lines on the surface of Mars to which he gave names of famous rivers on Earth. His term was popularly mistranslated as canals, and so started the Martian canal controversy. Following these observations, it was a long-held belief that Mars contained vast seas and vegetation. It was not until spacecraft visited the planet during NASA's Mariner missions in the 1960s that these myths were dispelled. Some maps of Mars were made using the data from these missions, but it wasn't until the Mars Global Surveyor mission, launched in 1996 and ending in late 2006, that complete, extremely detailed maps were obtained. Cartography[edit] Cartography is the art, science, and technology of making maps. There are many established techniques specific to Earth that allow us to convert the 2D curved surface into 2D planes to facilitate mapping. To facilitate this on Mars, projections, coordinate systems, and datums needed to be established. Today, the United States Geological Survey defines thirty cartographic quadrangles for the surface of Mars. These can be seen below. 0°N 180°W﻿ / ﻿0°N 180°W﻿ / 0; -180 0°N 0°W﻿ / ﻿0°N -0°E﻿ / 0; -0 90°N 0°W﻿ / ﻿90°N -0°E﻿ / 90; -0 MC-01 Mare Boreum MC-02 Diacria MC-03 Arcadia MC-04 Mare Acidalium MC-05 Ismenius Lacus MC-06 Casius MC-07 Cebrenia MC-08 Amazonis MC-09 Tharsis MC-10 Lunae Palus MC-11 Oxia Palus MC-12 Arabia MC-13 Syrtis Major MC-14 Amenthes MC-15 Elysium MC-16 Memnonia MC-17 Phoenicis MC-18 Coprates MC-19 Margaritifer MC-20 Sabaeus MC-21 Iapygia MC-22 Tyrrhenum MC-23 Aeolis MC-24 Phaethontis MC-25 Thaumasia MC-26 Argyre MC-27 Noachis MC-28 Hellas MC-29 Eridania MC-30 Mare Australe Clickable image of the 30 cartographic quadrangles of Mars, defined by the USGS.[6][7] Quadrangle numbers (beginning with MC for "Mars Chart")[8] and names link to the corresponding articles. North is at the top; 0°N 180°W﻿ / ﻿0°N 180°W﻿ / 0; -180 is at the far left on the equator. The map images were taken by the Mars Global Surveyor. ( view talk ) Zero elevation[edit] Main article: Areoid On Earth, the zero elevation datum is based on sea level (the geoid). Since Mars has no oceans and hence no 'sea level', it is convenient to define an arbitrary zero-elevation level or "vertical datum" for mapping the surface, called areoid.[9] The datum for Mars was defined initially in terms of a constant atmospheric pressure. From the Mariner 9 mission up until 2001, this was chosen as 610.5 Pa (6.105 mbar), on the basis that below this pressure liquid water can never be stable (i.e., the triple point of water is at this pressure). This value is only 0.6% of the pressure at sea level on Earth. Note that the choice of this value does not mean that liquid water does exist below this elevation, just that it could were the temperature to exceed 273.16 K (0.01 degrees C, 32.018 degrees F).[10] In 2001, Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter data led to a new convention of zero elevation defined as the equipotential surface (gravitational plus rotational) whose average value at the equator is equal to the mean radius of the planet.[11] Zero meridian[edit] Further information: Longitude (planets) Airy-0 crater (27 October 2021) Mars's equator is defined by its rotation, but the location of its prime meridian was specified, as is Earth's, by choice of an arbitrary point which later observers accepted. The German astronomers Wilhelm Beer and Johann Heinrich Mädler selected a small circular feature in the Sinus Meridiani ('Middle Bay' or 'Meridian Bay') as a reference point when they produced the first systematic chart of Mars features in 1830–1832. In 1877, their choice was adopted as the prime meridian by the Italian astronomer Giovanni Schiaparelli when he began work on his notable maps of Mars. In 1909 ephemeris-makers decided that it was more important to maintain continuity of the ephemerides as a guide to observations and this definition was "virtually abandoned".[12][13] After the Mariner spacecraft provided extensive imagery of Mars, in 1972 the Mariner 9 Geodesy / Cartography Group proposed that the prime meridian pass through the center of a small 500 m diameter crater (named Airy-0), located in Sinus Meridiani along the meridian line of Beer and Mädler, thus defining 0.0° longitude with a precision of 0.001°.[12] This model used the planetographic control point network developed by Merton Davies of the RAND Corporation.[14] As radiometric techniques increased the precision with which objects could be located on the surface of Mars, the center of a 500 m circular crater was considered to be insufficiently precise for exact measurements. The IAU Working Group on Cartographic Coordinates and Rotational Elements, therefore, recommended setting the longitude of the Viking 1 lander – for which there was extensive radiometric tracking data – as marking the standard longitude of 47.95137° west. This definition maintains the position of the center of Airy-0 at 0° longitude, within the tolerance of current cartographic uncertainties.[15] Topography[edit] High resolution topographic map of Mars based on the Mars Global Surveyor laser altimeter research led by Maria Zuber and David Smith. North is at the top. Notable features include the Tharsis volcanoes in the west (including Olympus Mons), Valles Marineris to the east of Tharsis, and Hellas basin in the southern hemisphere. STL 3D model of Mars with 20× elevation exaggeration using data from the Mars Global Surveyor Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter. Mars, 2001, with the southern polar ice cap visible on the bottom. North Polar region with icecap. Across a whole planet, generalisation is not possible, and the geography of Mars varies considerably. However, the dichotomy of Martian topography is striking: northern plains flattened by lava flows contrast with the southern highlands, pitted and cratered by ancient impacts. The surface of Mars as seen from Earth is consequently divided into two kinds of areas, with differing albedo. The paler plains covered with dust and sand rich in reddish iron oxides were once thought of as Martian 'continents' and given names like Arabia Terra (land of Arabia) or Amazonis Planitia (Amazonian plain). The dark features were thought to be seas, hence their names Mare Erythraeum, Mare Sirenum and Aurorae Sinus. The largest dark feature seen from Earth is Syrtis Major Planum. The shield volcano, Olympus Mons (Mount Olympus), rises 22 km above the surrounding volcanic plains, and is the highest known mountain on any planet in the solar system.[10] It is in a vast upland region called Tharsis, which contains several large volcanos. See list of mountains on Mars. The Tharsis region of Mars also has the solar system's largest canyon system, Valles Marineris or the Mariner Valley, which is 4,000 km long and 7 km deep. Mars is also scarred by countless impact craters. The largest of these is the Hellas impact basin. See list of craters on Mars. Mars has two permanent polar ice caps, the northern one located at Planum Boreum and the southern one at Planum Australe. The difference between Mars's highest and lowest points is nearly 30 km (from the top of Olympus Mons at an altitude of 21.2 km to Badwater Crater[1] at the bottom of the Hellas impact basin at an altitude of 8.2 km below the datum). In comparison, the difference between Earth's highest and lowest points (Mount Everest and the Mariana Trench) is only 19.7 km. Combined with the planets' different radii, this means Mars is nearly three times "rougher" than Earth. The International Astronomical Union's Working Group for Planetary System Nomenclature is responsible for naming Marti contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Geography_of_Mars responseCode 3 200 