rmuqrmvayalqbijessrgricegspqpirojsbgpavk page 10021 Eucharistic liturgy of the Byzantine Rite This article is about the Eastern Christian Divine Liturgy. For other uses, see Divine Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom (disambiguation). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2016) (template removal help) Part of a series on the Eastern Orthodox Church Mosaic of Christ Pantocrator, Hagia Sophia Overview Structure Theology (History of theology) Liturgy Church history Holy Mysteries View of salvation View of Mary View of icons Background Crucifixion / Resurrection / Ascension of Jesus Christianity Christian Church Apostolic succession Four Marks of the Church Orthodoxy Organization Autonomy Autocephaly Patriarchate Ecumenical Patriarch Episcopal polity Canon law Clergy Bishops Priests Deacons Monasticism Degrees Bratstvo Autocephalous jurisdictions Autocephalous Churches who are officially part of the communion: Constantinople Alexandria Antioch Jerusalem Russia Serbia Romania Bulgaria Georgia Cyprus Greece Poland Albania Czech Lands and Slovakia North Macedonia Autocephaly recognized by some autocephalous Churches de jure: America Autocephaly and canonicity recognized by Constantinople and 3 other autocephalous Churches: Ukraine (OCU) Canonicity recognized by all canonical Orthodox churches, declared independence from the Moscow Patriarchate: Ukraine (UOC) Autonomous jurisdictions Sinai Finland Estonia (EP) Japan (MP) China (MP) Americas (RP) Bessarabia (RP) Moldova (MP) Semi-Autonomous: Crete (EP) Estonia (MP) ROCOR (MP) Noncanonical jurisdictions Old Believers Spiritual Christianity True Orthodoxy Catacomb Church Old Calendarists American Orthodox Catholic Church American World Patriarchs National churches: Abkhazia Belarus Italy Latvia Montenegro Turkey UOC–KP Syncretic churches: Evangelical Orthodox Western Orthodoxy Celts France Gaul Ecumenical councils First Seven Ecumenical Councils: First Second Third Fourth Fifth Sixth Seventh Other possible ecumenical councils: Eighth Ninth Other important councils: Quinisext Council Jassy Moscow Jerusalem History Church Fathers Pentarchy Byzantine Empire Christianization of Georgia Christianization of Bulgaria Christianization of Kievan Rus' Great Schism Russia Ottoman Empire North America Moscow–Constantinople schism 15th–16th c. 1996 2018 Theology History of Eastern Orthodox theology (20th century (Neo-Palamism)) Apophaticism Chrismation Contemplative prayer Essence vs. Energies Hesychasm Holy Trinity Hypostatic union Icons Metousiosis Mystical theology Nicene Creed Nepsis Oikonomia vs Akribeia Ousia Palamism Philokalia Phronema Sin Theosis Theotokos Differences from the Catholic Church Opposition to the Filioque Opposition to papal supremacy Liturgy and worship Divine Liturgy Divine Services Akathist Apolytikion Artos Ectenia Euchologion Holy Water Iconostasis Jesus Prayer Kontakion Liturgical entrances Liturgical fans Lity Memorial service Memory Eternal Omophorion Eastern Orthodox bowing Eastern Orthodox marriage Praxis Paraklesis Paschal greeting Paschal Homily Paschal troparion Prayer rope Prosphora Russian bell ringing Semantron Sign of the cross Sticheron Troparion Vestments Use of incense Liturgical calendar Paschal cycle 12 Great Feasts Other feasts: Feast of Orthodoxy Intercession of the Theotokos The four fasting periods: Nativity Fast Great Lent Apostles' Fast Dormition Fast Major figures Athanasius of Alexandria Ephrem the Syrian Basil of Caesarea Cyril of Jerusalem Gregory of Nazianzus Gregory of Nyssa John Chrysostom Cyril of Alexandria John Climacus Maximus the Confessor John of Damascus Theodore the Studite Kassiani Cyril and Methodius Photios I of Constantinople Gregory Palamas List Architecture Folk Encyclical of the Eastern Patriarchs Eastern Orthodox cross Saint titles Statistics by country v t e The Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom is the most celebrated divine liturgy in the Byzantine Rite. It is named after its core part, the anaphora attributed to Saint John Chrysostom, Archbishop of Constantinople in the 5th century. History[edit] It reflects the work of the Cappadocian Fathers to both combat heresy and define Trinitarian theology for the Christian Church. This liturgy was probably used originally by the School of Antioch (John having been a deacon and priest in Antioch) and, therefore, most likely developed from West Syriac liturgical rites. In Constantinople, it was refined and beautified under John's guidance as Archbishop (398–404). As a divine liturgy of the Church of Holy Wisdom, Hagia Sophia, it became over time the usual divine liturgy in the churches within the Byzantine Empire. Just two divine liturgies (aside from the presanctified), those of Saints John and Basil the Great, became the norm in the Byzantine Church by the end of the reign of Justinian I.[1] After the Quinisext Council and the liturgical reforms of Patriarch Theodore Balsamon, the Byzantine Rite became the only rite in the Eastern Orthodox Church, remaining so until the 19th and 20th Century re-introduction by certain jurisdictions of Western Rites. The liturgy of Chrysostom was translated into Latin by Leo Tuscus in the 1170s. Modern classical musical compositions[edit] Besides numerous traditional chants of several schools, the following classical compositions by famous composers include: Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Stanković), a choral work composed by Kornelije Stanković in 1862. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Tchaikovsky), op. 41, a choral work composed by Pyotr Tchaikovsky in 1880. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Rimsky-Korsakov), op. 22, a choral work composed by Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov in 1883. Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Mokranjac), a choral work composed by Stevan Mokranjac in 1895. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Grechaninov), a choral work composed by Alexander Grechaninov in 1897. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Badev), a choral work composed by Atanas Badev, published in 1898. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Ippolotov-Ivanov), a choral work composed by Mikhail Ippolitov-Ivanov in 1903. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Kastalsky), a choral work composed by Alexander Kastalsky in 1905. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Boksay), a choral work composed by János Boksay in 1906. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Paliashvili), a choral work composed by Zakaria Paliashvili in 1909. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Rachmaninoff), op. 31, a choral work composed by Sergei Rachmaninoff in 1910. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Shvedov), a choral work composed by Konstantin Shvedov in 1911.[2] Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Chesnokov), a choral work composed by Pavel Chesnokov in 1914. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Leontovych), musical setting composed by Mykola Leontovych in 1919. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Dinev), a choral work composed by Petar Dinev in 1926. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Hristov), a choral work composed by Dobri Hristov in 1934. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Tarakanov), a choral work composed by Valeri Tarakanov. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Levine), a choral work composed by Alexander Levine in 2006. Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Alfeyev), composed by Hilarion Alfeyev in 2009. The Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom (Kurt Sander) composed in 2016 using English-language setting; professionally recorded by The PaTRAM Institute Singers, Peter Jermihov-conductor and Soundmirror-Blanton Alspaugh, producer (08/2017); world-premiere performance in Howell, New Jersey (09/20/2017); published by Musica Russica (2019); released by Reference Recordings (04/2019); nominated for Grammy Award for Best Choral Performance (nominations-11/2019; award ceremony-01/2020). Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Sheehan), a choral work composed by Rowan Benedict Sheehan in 2018. Recorded for commercial release by St. Tikhon's Choir, Rowan Benedict Sheehan, conductor and Soundmirror, Blanton Alspaugh. Other modern compositions of The Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom include those by Mykola Dyletsky, Maksym Berezovsky, Dimitry Bortniansky, Artemy Vedel, Yevhen Stankovych (2003), Myroslav Skoryk (2005), Roman Hurko (2000, 2003, 2011), Fr. John Sembrat (2015). See also[edit] Anaphora (liturgy) Liturgy of Saint Basil Liturgy of Saint James References[edit] ^ "Chrysostom", Early liturgy, Liturgica. ^ Skans, Per (1995). Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom (Media notes). Olympia. pp. 2–5. Further reading[edit] Hans-Joachim Schulz, Die byzantinische Liturgie : Glaubenszeugnis und Symbolgestalt, 3., völlig überarb. und aktualisierte Aufl. Paulinus, Trier 2000, ISBN 3-7902-1405-1 Robert A. Taft, A History of the Liturgy of St John Chrysostom, Pontificio Istituto Orientale, Roma 1978-2008 (6 volumes). Robert F. Taft, The Byzantine Rite. A Short History. Liturgical Press, Collegeville 1992, ISBN 0-8146-2163-5 Hugh Wybrew, The Orthodox Liturgy. The Development of the Eucharistic Liturgy in the Byzantine Rite, SPCK, London 1989, ISBN 0-281-04416-3 External links[edit] Service of the Divine and Sacred Liturgy of our Holy Father John Chrysostom, 1866 translation Study Text of the Divine Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom v t e Eastern Christian Byzantine Rite Services Divine Liturgy Liturgy of Saint Basil Liturgy of Saint James Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom Liturgy of Saint Mark Liturgy of the Presanctified Gifts Divine Office Vespers Compline Midnight Office Orthros (Matins) First Hour (Prime) Third Hour (Terce) Sixth Hour (Sext) Ninth Hour (None) Inter-Hours Typica All-night vigil Occasional Baptism Insufflation Minor exorcism Burial Absolution of the dead Memory Eternal Memorial service Chrismation Churching of women Consecration of a church Blessing of the cornerstone Exorcism Holy Week liturgies Foot washing Great Hours Epitaphios Threnos Epitafio Good Friday Prayer for the Jews I contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 66 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Liturgy_of_Saint_John_Chrysostom responseCode 3 200 