roqicgmomepktswcfqhexadiomeiycheymognooi length 6 142022 page 10030 Exclusive street in Boston This article is about the Boston street built in the 1860s. For the old Newbury Street section of Washington Street, see Washington Street (Boston). This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (November 2017) (template removal help) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Newbury Street" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2017) (template removal help) (template removal help) Newbury Street Newbury Street (westbound) at Arlington Street, near Boston Public Garden Location Boston, Massachusetts Coordinates 42°20′57″N 71°5′3″W﻿ / ﻿42.34917°N 71.08417°W﻿ / 42.34917; -71.08417 East end Arlington Street West end Brookline Avenue Newbury Street is located in the Back Bay area of Boston, Massachusetts, in the United States. It runs roughly east–west, from the Boston Public Garden to Brookline Avenue. The road crosses many major arteries along its path, with an entrance to the Massachusetts Turnpike westbound at Massachusetts Avenue. Newbury Street is a destination known for its many retail shops and restaurants. Description[edit] East of Massachusetts Avenue, Newbury Street is a mile-long street lined with historic 19th-century brownstones that contain hundreds of shops and restaurants, making it a popular destination for tourists and locals. Most of the "high-end boutiques" are located near the Boston Public Garden end of Newbury Street. As the address numbers climb, the shops become slightly less expensive and more bohemian up to Massachusetts Avenue. West of Massachusetts Avenue, the street borders the Massachusetts Turnpike on its unbuilt southern side, while the northern side is reserved mainly for parking and rear service entrances for buildings on Commonwealth Avenue. Newbury Street is interrupted by the Muddy River and Charlesgate Park. It then continues to border the Massachusetts Turnpike on its southern side until it meets Brookline Avenue. The shopping center might be able to expand as a result of a significant project that is being considered for decking over the Massachusetts Turnpike to the west of Massachusetts Avenue. Newbury Street has a mix of shops and eateries. Its renovated brownstone buildings feature coffee shops, cafes, and restaurants, with stores at all retail levels. However, due to the concentration of up-scale stores at its lower end, it's known as one of the most expensive streets in the world.[citation needed] Donlyn Lyndon, the Eva Li Professor Emeritus of Architecture and Urban Design at the University of California, Berkeley, writes that west of Clarendon Street Newbury Street develops its own very distinctive and appealing character and becomes one of the nicest shopping streets in Boston, or anywhere. Renovated town houses with large glass bays on the ground floor produce a delightful urban landscape.... Owners and tenants... have further animated the street by using the 25-foot (7.6 m) space between the building and the sidewalk for various purposes. Some areas are paved and used for displays or sidewalk sales. Others have thick planting... Some lots have stairs up and down to shops and galleries; others have show windows and display cases for flowers or fashions or other items for sale. But each contributes something extra, and together they make these blocks of Newbury Street genuinely attractive."[1] History[edit] Early history[edit] Newbury Street Back Bay Back Bay 2019 Brooks Brothers on Newbury Street Newbury Street Street Sign at Exeter Street Newbury Street's name celebrates the victory of the Puritans in the 1643 Battle of Newbury in the English Civil War. Newbury Street was one of the earliest roads in Boston, its portion was renamed Washington Street by the end of the 18th century. The current road was created during the filling in of Back Bay in the mid-19th century. The 1893 edition of Baedeker's United States catalogs Boston's "finest residence streets" as Commonwealth Avenue, Beacon Street, Marlborough Street, Newbury Street, and Mt. Vernon Street. William J. Geddis, however, notes that it was "the least fashionable Street in Back Bay." Owen Wister's novel, Philosophy 4, set in the 1870s, mentions Newbury Street: When you saw [Harvard student Oscar Maironi] seated in a car bound for Park Square, you knew he was going into Boston, where he would read manuscript essays on Botticelli or Pico della Mirandola, or manuscript translations of Armenian folksongs; read these to ecstatic, dim-eyed ladies in Newbury Street, who would pour him cups of tea when it was over, and speak of his earnestness after he was gone. It did not do the ladies any harm; but I am not sure that it was the best thing for Oscar. The first commercial establishments opened around 1905. By the late 1920s, lower Newbury Street had begun to establish itself as a destination for well-heeled society. With the establishment of Boston's Junior League in 1907, formal dances became very fashionable, and elegant apparel shops prospered. By 1911, 24 Newbury St. featured a salon for lessons in "social and aesthetic dance."[2] As more retailers moved in, many lower floor shops began to feature wide glass windows to exhibit luxury goods. In the late 1950s, fashionable boutiques included Darée, Charles Sumner, Miss Harvey (at #32), furriers and Joseph Antell. One of Newbury's oldest and most established retailers is the Brooks Brothers department store which occupies its original quarters at the corner of Berkeley St.[3] Transformation into a shopping district[edit] Ralph Lauren Store, 93–95 Newbury St, Boston The transformation that turned Newbury Street into a trendy shopping district probably began in the 1970s with the opening of the original Newbury Comics. From 1970 until the late 1990s, lower Newbury Street was lined with posh up-and-coming art galleries. Newbury Street mavens and hipsters spent Saturday afternoons gallery hopping and enjoying the ubiquitous "wine and cheese" art openings. The renowned music instrument retailer E.U. Wurlitzer Music and Sound was a part of the greater Boston music scene since 1890, and the store had been located at 360 Newbury Street (on the corner of Massachusetts Avenue) after moving from its LaGrange Street address in the mid-1960s. The building was a plain yellow-brick building by the time the company went out of business in the mid-1980s. In 1989, it was renovated under the direction of architect Frank Gehry and won the Parker Award as the most beautiful new building in Boston. According to architecture columnist Robert Campbell, Gehry "took a blandly forgettable building and transformed it into a monument... It's the first significant example in Boston of a movement known as deconstruction. Deconstructionist buildings are designed to look as if their parts are either colliding or exploding, usually at crazy angles."[4] Recent history[edit] Newbury Street open to pedestrians only for "Open Newbury Street" in September 2018. Since the turn of the 21st century, Newbury Street has maintained its transformative shopping experience alongside an evolving retail industry. Made-to-measure suits, eco-friendly products, guide shops and concept stores are offerings now commonly found in the area.[5] The street has retained both its sophisticated architectural style and its eclectic mix of retailers, from luxury brands and high-end boutiques to innovative up-and-coming companies, cafés and restaurants. Stores such as Tiffany & Co, Cartier, Valentino, rag & bone, Jack Wills, Steven Alan, Zara, Urban Outfitters, Lady M, Uniqlo and Muji comprise the diverse retail landscape. More recently, the district has become a popular destination for highly produced pop up shops. Many e-commerce brands use temporary storefronts on Newbury Street to test the Boston market for expansion, often landing as permanent fixtures on the street.[6][7] Local and national celebrities such as Julian Edelman, Kanye West, Martellus Bennett, and Gretta Monahan have also created or contributed to pop up activations on Newbury Street.[8] Notable places[edit] The first building completed in Back Bay after it was filled in 1860 was Emmanuel Church at 15 Newbury Street. At 234 Berkeley Street, between Newbury and Boylston Streets, is a notable building designed by William G. Preston in the classical French Beaux-Arts architecture style for the Boston Society of Natural History in 1864. Lyndon describes it as "a remarkably serene Classical building with none of the latent boosterism of its near contemporary, Old City Hall." The museum was renamed the Museum of Science in 1945 and moved to Science Park. It was the site of a Bonwit Teller store from 1947 to 1989 and the men's retailer Louis, Boston from 1990 to 2010. In March 2013, the extensively renovated building re-opened as a Restoration Hardware flagship store.[9] Between 1865 and 1916, Newbury Street was the location of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Its Boston campus grew to include two large academic buildings adjacent to the Natural History Museum, one of which was also designed by Preston. By the beginning of the 20th century, smaller scaled townhouses and social establishments filled in much of the length of street frontage. By 1939, MIT's grand structures were demolished and replaced by an insurance building. Gentleman's Clubs on Newbury Street included MIT's Technology Club at #83 across from the original main campus.[10] Boston Architectural College at 320 Newbury Street and 322 Newbury Street, is the United contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Newbury_Street responseCode 3 200 