scamucvoqayeqoicfkgmgeeokeogkecsvewowkqc length 5 52165 page 2438 This page is for uploading images and other media files to the English Wikipedia. Are you uploading a free image or media file? Please consider uploading it to the Wikimedia Commons. Items uploaded to the Commons can be used on Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects, helping to create a central repository of free images and multimedia. Where is the media from? It is entirely my own work and I am willing to release it irrevocably under a free license. It is the work of someone else, who has given permission to release it under a free license It is a work from a US federal government source (NOT state or local government) It is a work from Flickr and its author has released it under a free license It is a promotional photo from an advertisement, press kit, or similar source It is a historically significant fair use image It is the cover of an album or a single It is an audio sample of a song It is a cover or other page from a book, DVD, newspaper, magazine, or similar source It is a screenshot taken of a movie, TV program, computer game, web site, computer program, music video, or similar source It is the logo of an organization, brand, product, public facility, or other item It is a picture of a postage stamp, or of currency It is an image from a website Other files I don't know who the author is, or I am unsure which license applies I need help figuring out what the license is or I need help in understanding image copyright and Fair Use policies For experienced users If you are familiar with our image policies and already know which license applies, you can go directly to the plain upload form. You must be an autoconfirmed user logged in here on the English Wikipedia before you can upload files directly to this project. If the image you are attempting to upload is free content, please consider uploading it instead to the Wikimedia Commons as explained above; it can then be displayed directly on all Wikimedia projects, including here on the English Wikipedia. Alternatively, requests for image uploads can be made at Wikipedia:Images for upload. Help for new users For questions about image licensing and copyright, go to Media copyright questions. For requesting a file upload if you don't have a confirmed account yet, go to Wikipedia:Files for upload. For help creating your first own article, go to Wikipedia:Article wizard 2.0. For finding out where to ask other questions, go to Wikipedia:Questions. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 54 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Upload/old responseCode 3 200 