seksagzgacfcgsmaeoeiiarcfimcqezasineqife length 5 73894 page 3282 Annual celebration honouring the black community in Brazil This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Black Awareness Day" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2017) (template removal help) An advertisement about Black Awareness Day in São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil. A march during Consciência Negra day, São Paulo, 2008. In Brazil, Black Awareness Day or Black Consciousness Day (Portuguese: Dia da Consciência Negra) is observed annually on November 20 as a day "to celebrate a regained awareness by the black community about their great worth and contribution to the country".[1][failed verification] Black Awareness Day has been celebrated since the 1960s and has amplified its events in the last few years. Originally, it was celebrated on May 13 (the date of abolition of slavery in Brazil). It was later moved to November 20 to honour Zumbi's death, and is sometimes called Zumbi Day. It is an official state holiday in Alagoas, Amazonas, Amapá, Mato Grosso, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and marked elsewhere by multiple city councils. Events[edit] Members of the organization "Black Movement" (the largest of its kind in Brazil) organize educational and fun events involving mainly children of African descent. Their focus during these events is to dissolve the perception of Africans' inferiority in society. Other "hot topics" in the Black community during the Day of Black Awareness are the assimilation of African-Brazilian laborers with Caucasian-Brazilian and other laborers, ethnic identity, and black pride. Similar days celebrating racial groups in Brazil[edit] The "Day of the Caboclo" (Dia do Caboclo) is observed annually on June 24, in celebration of the contributions and identity of the original caboclos and their descendants. This date is an official public holiday in the State of Amazonas. "Mixed Race Day" (Dia do Mestiço) is observed annually on June 27, three days after the Day of the Caboclo, in celebration of all mixed-race Brazilians, including the caboclos. The date is an official public holiday in three Brazilian states. "Indigenous Peoples Day" (Dia dos Povos Indígenas), observed annually on April 19, recognizes and honours the indigenous peoples of Brazil. See also[edit] Black History Month, United States, UK, Ireland, The Netherlands Afro-Colombian Day, Colombia References[edit] ^ "UNESCO launches campaign for Black Awareness Day, 20 November". UNESCO. 12 November 2012. Retrieved 23 April 2017. [1] v t e Afro-Brazilian topics History Slavery in Brazil Atlantic slave trade Early slave revolts Mocambos / Quilombos Revolt of the Lash Malê revolt Revolution of the Ganhadores Abolition of slavery Branqueamento / Racial whitening Favelas Racial democracy Culture and music Cafundó Afoxé Capoeira Funk carioca Maracatu Samba Afro-Brazilian literature Afro-Brazilian Museum Religion Candomblé Quimbanda Umbanda Tambor de Mina Politics Black Awareness Day Frente Negra Black movement Racism Ethnic subdivisions Pardos Quilombolas Kalungas Cafuzos African immigrants Angolans Nigerians Caribbean immigrants Barbadians Haitians Diaspora Saro Tabom contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Black_Awareness_Day responseCode 3 200 