sgvstigsliteuqtqziteeateroomnigqbamaekcg page 10013 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 30 June 2021 00:00, 30 June 2021 (UTC) Coxiella burnetii, which causes Q fever ... that Paul Fiset's research led to the development of the first successful vaccine against Q fever (bacteria pictured)? ... that Gilles Lupien used the C$75,000 signing bonus from his first Montreal Canadiens contract to buy shares in a lumber company, enabling him to obtain quality lumber to construct his first home? ... that by being the first travesti to become a national celebrity, entertainer Cris Miró increased the visibility of the transgender community in Argentine society during the 1990s? ... that transit service on part of MBTA bus route 86 dates back to 1858? ... that Nell Walden was the first abstract artist in Swedish history? ... that Thomas Rhett's "What's Your Country Song" contains lyrical references to 16 other country songs? ... that Morecambe secured promotion to the third tier of English football for the first time in their history when they won the 2021 EFL League Two play-off Final? ... that there are few tall buildings on Long Island because residents do not want it to become "Queensified", referring to the neighboring New York City borough? 29 June 2021 00:00, 29 June 2021 (UTC) Carolyn Huntoon ... that Carolyn Huntoon (pictured) was the first woman to serve as the director of the Johnson Space Center? ... that the largest dictionary of the Polish language is 50 volumes long? ... that Hikaru Natsumi contributed to adult comic magazines while still in high school? ... that Major Byers wrote "The Song of Iowa" after being inspired by hearing Confederate soldiers playing "Maryland, My Maryland" outside his prison cell and used the same tune? ... that Elena Urrutia helped launch the Mexican feminist magazine Fem? ... that a major Asian collection was donated to the National Museum of Ireland – Decorative Arts and History by Jewish benefactor Albert Bender while the museum was headed by Adolf Mahr, head of the Dublin Nazi chapter? ... that Thomas Laubach, who wrote more than 250 Christian pop songs, is the same person as Thomas Weißer, a professor of ethics at the University of Bamberg? ... that the penis of the statue of Heracles in Arcachon, France, was twice reduced in size following complaints from local ladies? 28 June 2021 00:00, 28 June 2021 (UTC) Campaign button from Reagan's 1980 presidential campaign ... that the slogan of Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, "Make America Great Again", was also used by Ronald Reagan in his 1980 presidential campaign (campaign button pictured)? ... that at the suggestion of writer and translator Cecilia Bååth-Holmberg, Mother's Day was celebrated for the first time in Sweden in 1919? ... that some men purposely have sex in order to become infected with HIV? ... that Henriette Spitzeder and her husband Josef Spitzeder appeared on stage as Mozart's Figaro and his bride Susanna? ... that the Suffrage Torch was a symbol of illumination during the Suffragist campaigns in the states of New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania in the summer of 1915 and the idea of Harriot Stanton Blatch? ... that Major-General Freddie de Guingand was invested with his knighthood in the field by King George VI? ... that two business partners' townhouses at 10 and 12 West 56th Street were described as being "paired in an uneasy dance, one doing the cancan, the other a minuet"? ... that Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Zack Wheeler had to have fingernail surgery in 2020 due to an injury sustained from putting on a pair of jeans? 27 June 2021 00:00, 27 June 2021 (UTC) Marie André Cantillon ... that Marie André Cantillon (pictured) was awarded 10,000 francs in Napoleon's will for a failed assassination attempt on the Duke of Wellington? ... that Veronica jovellanoides was given the nickname "Bamboozle" after botanists spent 80 hours trying to find it again following its discovery? ... that Rosa Ponselle blamed Metropolitan Opera star Giovanni Martinelli's poor singing on his love affair with French soprano and actress Colette D'Arville? ... that the Vickers Red Hebe air-to-air missile was dismissed by the British Air Ministry's own Operational Requirements branch as "still in the piston era" compared to the US Sparrow? ... that Carla Van Zon ran two arts festivals in New Zealand? ... that, at the time of its dedication, the Ulysses S. Grant Monument in Chicago was the largest statue ever cast in bronze in the United States? ... that Margot Heumann is the first woman known to have survived the Nazi concentration camps despite being both Jewish and queer? ... that the 1987 FA Charity Shield was played one week early to allow Diego Maradona, Gary Lineker, Michel Platini and Josimar to play alongside one another at Wembley Stadium? 26 June 2021 00:00, 26 June 2021 (UTC) Bush Tower ... that the Bush Tower (pictured), near New York City's Times Square, was an attempt at a trade center before the World Trade Center itself? ... that Stina Quint was the founder and editor of Kamratposten, one of the earliest children's magazines in Sweden? ... that an 18th-century carillon-music manuscript by Joannes de Gruytters was discovered at a book auction? ... that comic book creator Brandon Dayton chose medieval Russia as the setting for his minicomic Green Monk after watching Andrei Tarkovsky's film Andrei Rublev? ... that How Doth the Little Crocodile by Leonora Carrington was based on Lewis Carroll's poem of the same name? ... that Edith Kanakaʻole's acceptance speech for a 1978 Na Hoku Hanohano Award was given entirely in the Hawaiian language? ... that the causes of the Armenian genocide are considered to include both long-term structural problems of the Ottoman Empire and wartime radicalization? ... that the piano businessman Edwin Bechstein received a Nazi state funeral, and his wife Helene taught Hitler table manners? 25 June 2021 00:00, 25 June 2021 (UTC) Françoise Hardy ... that French singer-songwriter Françoise Hardy (pictured) was admired by musicians such as the Beatles, the Rolling Stones and Bob Dylan during the 1960s? ... that after he escaped from the high-security İmralı prison, Billy Hayes wrote a book about the escape that was later adapted into a film? ... that the theories of Swiss geographer Samuel Engel about an ice-free region near the North Pole led to a British expedition towards the North Pole in 1773? ... that despite going behind in less than one minute courtesy of an own goal, Blackpool secured a record sixth post-season final when they won the 2021 EFL League One play-off Final? ... that Three Notch Road, covering 233 miles (375 km) between Pensacola, Florida, and Fort Mitchell, Alabama, cost $1,130 to build? ... that Genoa honored Stefanina Moro, a teenage courier in the Italian resistance who was killed by Nazis, by naming a street after her? ... that Northampton Town manager Ian Atkins declared that the "whole town has gone barmy" after his side won the 1997 Football League Third Division play-off Final? ... that despite Beverly White's earlier opposition to abortion, she represented Planned Parenthood at the World Conference on Women, 1995? 24 June 2021 00:00, 24 June 2021 (UTC) Male hooded visorbearer ... that the hooded visorbearer (example pictured) builds its nest out of cactus spines? ... that Russian generals proposed to invade India in 1854 and in 1855 to divert British forces from the Crimean War? ... that Addo Bonetti lost renomination in a Democratic primary by one vote, but the election was later invalidated? ... that the illustrated erotic novel Su'e pian, published during the late Ming dynasty, d contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 70 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2021/June responseCode 3 200 