sgwoumwqmivepkwgyqusaosgksioveykemiegono page 10027 American home of Joseph Priestley For the building known as the "Dr. Joseph Priestley House", see Priestley-Forsyth Memorial Library. United States historic place Joseph Priestley House U.S. National Register of Historic Places U.S. National Historic Landmark Priestley Avenue side of the Joseph Priestley House in 2007 Show map of Pennsylvania Show map of the United States Location Northumberland, Pennsylvania Coordinates 40°53′25.8″N 76°47′23.5″W﻿ / ﻿40.890500°N 76.789861°W﻿ / 40.890500; -76.789861 Area 1 acre (0.40 ha) Built 1794 - 1798 Architectural style Georgian, Federal NRHP reference No. 66000673 Significant dates Added to NRHP January 12, 1965 Designated NHL October 15, 1966 The Joseph Priestley House was the American home of eighteenth-century British theologian, Dissenting clergyman, natural philosopher (and co-discoverer of oxygen), educator, and political theorist Joseph Priestley (1733–1804) from 1798 until his death. Located in Northumberland, Pennsylvania, the house, which was designed by Priestley's wife Mary, is Georgian with Federalist accents. The Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission (PHMC) operated it as a museum dedicated to Joseph Priestley from 1970 to August 2009, when it closed due to low visitation and budget cuts. The house reopened in October 2009, still owned by the PHMC but operated by the Friends of Joseph Priestley House (FJPH). Fleeing religious persecution and political turmoil in Britain, the Priestleys emigrated to the United States in 1794 seeking a peaceful life. Hoping to avoid the political troubles that had plagued them in Britain and the problems of urban life they saw in the United States, the Priestleys built a house in rural Pennsylvania. Nevertheless, political disputes and family troubles dogged Priestley during the last ten years of his life. After the Priestleys died, their home remained in private hands until the turn of the twentieth century, when George Gilbert Pond, a professor from what is now Pennsylvania State University, bought it and attempted to found the first Priestley museum. He died before he could complete the project and it was not until the 1960s that the house was first carefully restored by the PHMC and designated a National Historic Landmark. A second renovation was undertaken in the 1990s to return the home to the way it looked during Priestley's time. The home has been a frequent place of celebration for the American Chemical Society; they commemorated the centennial and bicentennial of the discovery of oxygen gas by Priestley as well as the 250th anniversary of Priestley's birth. Location[edit] Map of eastern Pennsylvania showing important locations for the history of Joseph Priestley and the area Following the French and Indian War (1755–63) and the forced migration of Native American tribes westward, German, Scots-Irish, and other European immigrants settled in the central Susquehanna Valley, including in the area that would become Northumberland, Pennsylvania.[1] Northumberland was laid out around a central village green in 1772, on land originally purchased from the Iroquois by the Province of Pennsylvania in 1768, as part of the first Treaty of Fort Stanwix.[2] During the American Revolution, the village was evacuated as part of the Big Runaway in 1778, and only finally resettled in 1784.[3] In 1794, when the Priestleys moved there, it included Quaker and Wesleyan meeting houses, a brewery, two potteries, a potash manufacturer, a clock maker, a printer (who issued a weekly newspaper), several stores, and approximately one hundred houses.[2] Map of Northumberland, Pennsylvania showing the Priestley House at the confluence of the North and West branches of the Susquehanna Rivers The Priestley property, which was purchased in 1794 at a total cost of £500 (£ 61,100 in 2023) from Reuben Haines, who had secured the patent to the land for Northumberland,[4] comprised four lots of the original village plan (numbers 29–32). Currently, the house and grounds occupy 1 acre (4,000 m2) at 472 Priestley Avenue.[5] (The address of the house was originally "North Way", but the street was later renamed in honor of Joseph Priestley.[6]) This street forms the northwest boundary of the property; the other boundaries are Hanover Avenue to the northeast, Wallis Street to the southwest, and the North Shore Railroad to the southeast.[5] A baseball field is located beyond the railroad line; beyond that lies the Susquehanna River, which was the original southeastern boundary of the property. The confluence of the West Branch Susquehanna River with the main (or North) branch of the Susquehanna is a short distance southwest of the property, which is at an elevation of 456 feet (139 m).[7] The property's original area was 2 acres (8,000 m2),[8] but this was reduced by about half around 1830 when the Pennsylvania Canal (North Branch Division) was dug through the house's front yard, between the house and river. On May 31, 1860, the Lackawanna and Bloomsburg Railroad opened with a train from Danville. This was the second railroad track in Northumberland, and ran behind the house.[9] The canal closed in 1902 and was later filled in. The modern railroad line approximates the canal's course through the front yard; the track behind the house no longer exists.[5] Priestleys in America[edit] Joseph Priestley, painted late in life by Rembrandt Peale, after he had left off wearing his wig American-style (c. 1800)[10] Emigration to Northumberland[edit] See also: Priestley Riots The last three years the Priestleys spent in Britain were a time of political upheaval. During the Birmingham Riots of 1791, which began on the second anniversary of the storming of the Bastille in the wake of the conservative British reaction against the French revolution, the Priestleys' home, Joseph's church, and the homes of many other religious Dissenters were burned. The Priestleys fled Birmingham and attempted to live in London, but could not escape the political turmoil.[11] In 1794, they joined the tide of 10,000 emigrants who moved to America during the largest emigration from Europe to America until the end of the Napoleonic Wars.[12] The Priestleys left Britain at the beginning of April on the Samson,[13] and arrived in New York City on June 4, 1794.[14] Two of their three sons, Joseph, Jr. (eldest) and Harry (youngest), had already emigrated to the United States in August 1793, along with Joseph Priestley's friend, the radical activist Thomas Cooper.[15] Their middle son, William, had moved to America from France, probably early in 1793, following the September massacres of the previous year.[16] Although Europeans knew Priestley best as a scientist (he had published his paper on the discovery oxygen gas in 1774), Americans knew him best as a defender of religious freedom and as an advocate for American independence.[17] Immediately upon his arrival, he was fêted by various political factions vying to gain his support. Priestley declined their entreaties, however, hoping to avoid the political discord that had embroiled him in Britain. He wrote to John Adams that he "made it a rule to take no part whatever in the politics of a country in which I am a stranger, and in which I only wish to live undisturbed".[18] (Priestley never became a citizen of the United States.[3][19]) He also turned down an opportunity to teach chemistry at the University of Pennsylvania at this time.[20] On their way to Northumberland, the Priestleys stopped in Philadelphia, where Joseph delivered a series of sermons that helped promote the spread of Unitarianism. According to J. D. Bowers, who studied Priestley's influence on Unitarianism in America, "[f]or a decade Priestley served as the inspiration and leading force in the spread of Unitarianism in America and the formation of numerous societies that followed his teachings on congregational formation, the education of youth, lay preaching, and espousing one's faith in the presence of opposition from (and to) both the Protestant majority and a competing liberal faction."[21] Through Priestley's influence, at least twelve congregations were founded in Maine, Massachusetts, New York, Vermont, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky, including the First Unitarian Church of Philadelphia and Northumberland's Unitarian Universalist Congregation of the Susquehanna Valley.[22][23] When he preached, Unitarians and non-Unitarians flocked to hear him and his sermons were published throughout the country.[22] During his years in America, Priestley became increasingly convinced that the Millennium was approaching. His close study of the Bible, together with the happenings in France, persuaded him that he would see Christ's return.[24] Mary Priestley, who designed the house, by Carl Frederik von Breda (1793) While Priestley enjoyed preaching in Philadelphia, he could not afford the expense of living there; he also disliked the city's Quakers, whom he believed were too opulent, and feared the yellow fever epidemic that had recently decimated the city.[25] He considered settling in Germantown, which had better access to transportation and communication than Northumberland, but his wife preferred the country and wanted to be near her sons. Priestly then debated about splitting his time between Northumberland and Philadelphia, but soon realized this plan was impractical. Determined to ensure the future economic stability of his family, he bought land and settled in Northumberland by July 1794, which was "five days of rough travel" north of Philadelphia.[26] They both hoped that, in time, their new community would grow.[27] Settling in[edit] Priestley yearned for a more cosmopolitan community than Northumberland provided, writing to his sister that it was "seemingly almost out of the world" and complaining that he had to wait a week for news. He wrote to his friend John Vaughan: "We know but little more than we did when we left you of European affairs."[28] During the winter o contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Joseph_Priestley_House responseCode 3 200 