siaelekkhksivmecdekkqqzkbooqoqoehkjgsobi length 6 146032 page 10002 Wikipedia project page covering abbreviated links For other uses, see Wikipedia:Keyboard shortcuts. "WP:SHORT" redirects here. For short citations, see Wikipedia:Citing sources ยง Short citations. For short descriptions, see Wikipedia:Short description. "WP:SC" redirects here. For the essay on explicit materials, see Wikipedia:Sexual content. This page documents an English Wikipedia project content guideline. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page. Shortcuts WP:SC WP:SHORT WP:THIS Wikipedia guidelines Guidelines list Policies list Behavioral Assume good faith Conflict of interest Courtesy vanishing Disruptive editing Don't bite the newcomers Don't disrupt to make a point Etiquette Gaming the system User pages Other behavioral guidelines WMF friendly space policy Discussions Talk page guidelines Signatures Content Citing sources External links Reliable sources medicine Fringe theories Non-free content Offensive material Don't copy long texts Don't create hoaxes Patent nonsense Other content guidelines Editing Article size Be bold Edit summary Understandability Other editing guidelines Organization Categories, lists, templates Categorization Disambiguation Style Manual of Style contents lists tables Deletion Deletion process Speedy keep Deletion guidelines for administrators Project content Project pages WikiProjects Templates User pages User boxes Shortcuts Subpages Other Naming conventions Notability v t e Linking and page manipulation Linking and diffs URLs Links Orphans Interlanguage links Interwiki linking Shortcuts External links External link icons Plainlinks Link color Colon trick Pipe trick Self links What links here Linksearch Manual of Style on linking Navigation templates Hatnotes Template index for links Diffs Simplest diff guide Simple diff and link guide Complete diff and link guide Categorization Category Categorization guideline Classification Container category FAQ for categorization FAQ for categories Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization of people By year By ethnicity, gender, religion and sexuality Redirect categories User categories Overcategorization User categories Template index for categories Moving and redirecting How to move a page for beginners Redirects Moving a page Requested moves How to fix cut-and-paste moves Moving files to Commons Userfication Non-admin and admin-only moves Template index for moving Template index for redirects Merging Merging Proposed article mergers Requests for history merge Merge and delete? Merge what? Delete or merge? Template index for merging WikiProject Merge Splitting Splitting Template index for splitting Importing and copying How to import articles Requests for page importation Import Export Copying within Wikipedia Protecting Protection Protection policy High-risk templates Requests for page protection Rough guide to semi-protection Additional How to create a page Article creation Editing Deletion process v t e A shortcut is a specialized type of redirect page that provides an abbreviated wikilink to an administrative page or one of its sections, usually from the Wikipedia namespace or Help namespace. These shortcuts' abbreviations in all-caps text are commonly used (linked or unlinked) on community pages and talk pages, but should not be used in articles themselves. If there are one or more shortcuts for a page or section, one or more will usually be chosen to be displayed in an information box on the right labelled Shortcut or Shortcuts, as can be seen at the top of this page. Shortcuts are created for the convenience of editors. It is possible to create a shortcut for any page at all. The existence of a shortcut does not imply or prove that the linked page is a policy or guideline. Quick reference Lists of available shortcuts can be found at: WP:WP / WP:CUTS = Wikipedia:Shortcut index WP:WPR = Wikipedia:Shortcut index/Project shortcuts WT:WT = Wikipedia:Shortcuts to talk pages WP:PORTCUT = Wikipedia:Shortcut index/Portal shortcuts On Meta, shortcuts start with WM:; the list is at m:WM:WM Special:PrefixIndex can be used to find uncategorized or unlisted pages starting with a given prefix; for example, Special:PrefixIndex/CAT: will find some category shortcuts Template:Useful links contains common shortcuts that are often used linked or unlinked in editor discussions or edit summaries; hover your mouse pointer over a shortcut to see a pop-up with its article's full name in it (see ยง See also) How to use a Wikipedia shortcut A Wikipedia shortcut can be entered into the Wikipedia search box to quickly bring you to a project page. For example, you can type WP:R or H:R into the search box and then press the enter key (or click the magnifying glass icon), to get to the Wikipedia:Redirect page, instead of having to type in the complete phrase. Alternatively, you can use a shortcut in the URL in your browser's address bar. For example, you are currently viewing the Wikipedia:Shortcut page. The URL for this page is https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Shortcut. You could then get from here to the Wikipedia:Redirect page by replacing Wikipedia:Shortcut with WP:R in the address bar, followed by pressing the enter key. (If your browser has relative URL entry, simply prefix the shortcut with ./ instead of having to edit the existing URL.) Shortcuts are presented in all capital letters (ALL CAPS); however, the search box is case-insensitive. For example, in the search box, you can type wp:r, instead of WP:R. However, when using the URL method (or when making links) it is necessary to match the capitalization of the shortcut itself. Readability Shortcut WP:SCJARGON Shortcuts are often used on talk pages in their abbreviated form, decreasing readability for the general reader. For example, some editors are familiar with the bulk of the Wikipedia namespace shortcuts, recognizing what they stand for on sight. Others, however, are faced with pages full of incomprehensible jargon, the meaning of which is not immediately clear. Shortcuts also are sometimes (ab)used to make a WP:POINT, best described by WP:WOTTA. To avoid these problems, a good practice when creating shortcuts is to choose common English words that are easily identifiable and memorable. Another good practice is to be mindful of the general reader and use meaningful terms when citing an obscure shortcut. For example, the piped link [[WP:SHC|shortcut]] gives readers an idea of the subject of the target page, while the bare abbreviation [[WP:SHC]] is unintelligible to those unfamiliar with the term. It should also be remembered that shortcuts are a convenience, not a substitute for titles. Shortcuts should not appear in "See also" sections, hatnotes or any other place where a page title is expected. Link boxes See also: Category:Wikipedia header templates Shortcut WP:LINKBOXES Small link boxes, listing the names of the page's shortcuts, appear at the top of many pages, especially those on policies and guidelines. A shortcut link box can be added to a page, by placing the template {{shortcut|WP:<x>}} (for project namespace) or {{shortcut|H:<x>}} (for Help pages) at the top of the page's text, while editing. For template redirects, {{Template shortcut}} is used instead. The point of these template boxes is not to list every single redirect for any given page (that's what Special:WhatLinksHere is for). Instead, they generally should list only the most common and easily remembered redirects. Guideline pages with shortcuts pointing to them typically use {{guideline|WP:<x>}} or the {{subcat guideline}} template, such as on this page, instead of the shortcut template {{shortcut}}. Another frequently used template is: {{MoS-guideline|MOS:<x>}}. To learn more about the different shortcut box templates and their functions, see documentation at {{shortcut}}. Among other things, there are templates for making boxes flow to the left and now, anchors are automatically added, making it much simpler to link to a page section. Shortcut names Shortcut WP:SCNAMES Shortcut names are almost always in uppercase. A shortcut is typically named using the following convention: PREFIX:SUFFIX In the above form, the prefix is typically one of the prefixes in the following section, and the suffix is an acronym or abbreviation of the redirect target. However quite a lot are simply WP:BAD. If the target is a sub-page, the following conventions are common (where 'Y' is an additional sequence of uppercase characters or numerals): PREFIX:SUFFIX/Y For example, P:HVNY/DYK is a shortcut to Portal:Hudson Valley/Did you know, which is a subpage of Portal:Hudson Valley, which has a shortcut P:HVNY. WP:ACC/P is a shortcut to Wikipedia:Request an account/Procedures, which is a subpage of Wikipedia:Request an account, which has a shortcut WP:ACC. PREFIX:SUFFIXY For example, WP:AFDLT is a shortcut to Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Log/Today, which is a subpage of Wikipedia:Articles for deletion, which has the shortcut WP:AFD. Shortcuts that do not follow the above naming convention are discouraged, and are typically deleted. The directory of shortcuts contains several conflicts for prefixes of subpages, often caused by a shortcut being 're-targeted' (modified to point to a new target page) without the shortcuts to subpages also being re-targeted. For example, WP:CJ was originally used for Wikipedia:Community Justice, and several shortcuts for subpages were created (WP:CJ/E & WP:CJ/M/1). After several years, 'WP:CJ' was updated to point to Wikipedia:Centijimbos, but the subpage shortcuts have not changed. Before creating a shortcut, use Special:PrefixIndex to ensure that the same prefix is not being used for different purposes. e.g. WP:CJ has several existing uses. No additional confusion would be caused by creating a shortcut WP:CJQ, however cr contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Shortcut responseCode 3 200 