skxkuidisisonqkqsceibgksgarmkocsecbmokii page 10055 Public university in Madrid, Spain Complutense University of Madrid Universidad Complutense de Madrid (Spanish) Latin: Universitas Complutensis Matritensis Former name Estudio de Escuelas Generales de Alcalá (1293–1499) Universitas Complutensis (1499–1836) Literary University (1836–1851) Universidad Central (1851–1943) Universidad de Madrid (1943–1970) Motto Libertas Perfundet Omnia Luce (Latin) Motto in English "Freedom will flood all things with light" Type Public research non-profit coeducational higher education institution Established 20 May 1293; 730 years ago (20 May 1293) Founder Cardinal Francisco Jiménez de Cisneros Academic affiliations Compostela Group of Universities Europaeum IAU Una Europa UNICA Utrecht Network Budget €607,559,030 Rector Joaquín Goyache Goñi Administrative staff 11,162 Undergraduates 74,771 Postgraduates 11,388 Location Madrid , Spain 40°26′57″N 3°43′41″W Campus Urban 2 campuses in Madrid --Moncloa Campus --Somosaguas Campus Colours Red [1] Website www.ucm.es The Complutense University of Madrid (Spanish: Universidad Complutense de Madrid; UCM, Universidad de Madrid, Universidad Central de Madrid; Latin: Universitas Complutensis Matritensis) is a public research university located in Madrid. Founded in Alcalá in 1293 (before relocating to Madrid in 1836), it is one of the oldest operating universities in the world. It is located on a sprawling campus that occupies the entirety of the Ciudad Universitaria district of Madrid, with annexes in the district of Somosaguas in the neighboring city of Pozuelo de Alarcón. It is named after the ancient Roman settlement of Complutum, now an archeological site in Alcalá de Henares, just east of Madrid. It enrolls over 86,000 students, making it the third largest non-distance European university by enrollment.[2] Since its foundation, it has attracted numerous scholars, intellectuals and students from all over Spain and the world, establishing itself as one of the main international centers of learning.[3] By Royal Decree of 1857, the Central University was the first and only institution in Spain authorized to grant doctorate degrees throughout the Spanish Empire. In 1909, the Central University became one of the first universities in the world to grant a doctorate degree to a woman.[4] It was renamed as Universidad de Madrid ('University of Madrid') in 1943.[5] History[edit] See also: University of Alcalá Cardinal Cisneros expanded the existing Studium Generale into a large five-college University. On 20 May 1293, King Sancho IV of Castile granted the Archbishop of Toledo, Gonzalo Pérez Gudiel, a royal charter to found a studium generale (as universities were known at that time), named El Estudio de Escuelas Generales in Alcalá de Henares.[6] One of its alumni, Cardinal Cisneros, made extensive purchases of land and ordered the construction of many buildings, in what became the first university campus ex-novo in history: The Civitas Dei, or city of God, named after the work of Augustine of Hippo. On 13 April 1499, Cardinal Cisneros secured from Pope Alexander VI a papal bull to expand Complutense into a full university. This papal bull conferred official recognition throughout Christendom to all degrees granted by the university. It also renamed the institution Universitas Complutensis, after Complutum, which was the Latin name of Alcalá de Henares, where the university was originally located. In the 1509–1510 school year, the Complutense University already operated with five major schools: Arts and Philosophy, Theology, Canon Law, Philology and Medicine.[7][8] During the 16th and 17th centuries, Complutense University became one of the greatest centers of academic excellence in the world. Many of the leading figures in science, arts and politics of that age studied or taught in Complutense's classrooms.[9] Special colleges were created for students of foreign origin, such as Flemish or Irish (at the Irish College of San Jorge at Alcalá de Henares). In 1785, Complutense became one of the first universities in the world to grant a doctorate to a female student, María Isidra de Guzmán y de la Cerda.[10] In comparison, University of Oxford did not accept female scholars until 1920,[11] and the University of Cambridge did not grant a PhD to a female student until 1926.[12] In 1824, Francisco Tadeo Calomarde further expanded Complutense by merging it with the University of Sigüenza.[13] By a royal order of 29 October 1836, Queen Regent Maria Christina suppressed the university in Alcalá and ordered its move to Madrid, where it took the name of Literary University and, in 1851, of Central University (Universidad Central). Alfonso XIII, King of Spain, with Faculty members of the university: Albert Einstein, José Rodríguez Carracido, Blas Cabrera y Felipe, among others, on 11 March 1923. The Central University awarded Albert Einstein a Doctor of Science degree Honoris Causa on 28 February 1923; this was the first Doctor of Science degree Honoris Causa that Albert Einstein accepted from a European university. In April 1933, Minister for Education and the Arts Fernando de los Ríos, announced that Einstein had agreed to take charge of a professorship in a research institute, which would bear the name Instituto Albert Einstein, under the university's School of Science.[14] However, as the political situation began to deteriorate throughout Europe, Einstein ended up accepting a similar position at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. The university greatly expanded during the 19th century, and its accommodations in central Madrid proved to be increasingly inadequate. Besides the greater number of students, after its move from Alcalá the university had been based in a number of preexisting, government-acquired properties – mainly aristocratic mansions and royal châteaux from centuries past, abandoned by their owners for more contemporary lodgings. Though they were not without their charm, the ancient buildings were not ideal as educational settings, and the early 20th century witnessed the students of the Central University attending philosophy lectures and anatomy lessons in elaborate spaces that had served as ballrooms and salons only a few decades prior. This situation changed in 1927, when by royal decree King Alfonso XIII ceded state-held lands in the proximity of the Palace of La Moncloa to establish space for the University of Madrid. At the time, this constituted all of the land between the Royal Palace and the Palace of El Pardo, and today it comprises a vast swath of western Madrid referred to as the "Ciudad Universitaria", or University City of Madrid. Engineers graduated in 1913 from the Complutense University. A council appointed by King Alfonso XIII had decided that the new University of Madrid would require the innovative architecture and planning. A team of academics was sent on an international expedition to visit the most prestigious universities in Europe and North America, to combine the best of both continents and design the utopian academic setting. The trip took them to 19 universities in the American northeast, as well as to Paris, Lyon, Oxford, Berlin, Hamburg, and numerous other European cities, all in an effort to discern the best possible building structure. The architectural tendencies of the era, however, ended up having a greater influence than the academics' visits to Harvard, the University of Pennsylvania, La Sorbonne or the University of Berlin; while the final plans from this period are hardly recognizable to anyone familiar with the contemporary campus, the buildings from the era that managed to survive the design revisions, the Civil War and the Franco regime betray the period's fondness for the German Bauhaus movement. Indeed, the original buildings, exemplary amongst them the Schools of Medicine, Pharmacy and Odontology, are an homage to structural functionalism and the graceful utilitarianism of the 1920s. In the 1970s, following the political instability of the regime of Francisco Franco, the University of Madrid was renamed, dividing existing colleges between the Complutense University of Madrid and the Technical University of Madrid. When the city of Alcalá de Henares decided to open a university within the older campus buildings, it was named Universidad de Alcalá de Henares to clearly distinguish it from the Complutense University. Today[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2014) (template removal help) University City of Madrid The University of Madrid has played a major role in the political development of Spain since its founding. Its graduates have been members, at either congressional or ministerial level, in all of the governments of Spain since the Enlightenment, and their positions in the Second Spanish Republic and the post-Franco transition to democracy were particularly notable. The former first deputy prime minister, María Teresa Fernández de la Vega, and the former president, José María Aznar, are both graduates of the university. The Complutense University has also played host to some of the most significant figures of the intellectual world, with a long tradition of visiting professors amongst which feature some of the greats of world academia (most notably, Albert Einstein). A significant part of the European intelligentsia flocked to its halls during the 1930s, when democratic Spain provided a refuge from the rising terrors of fascism. The contemporary Complutense University has also counted numerous Nobel Laureates not only among its graduates, but also its faculty members over the years. Rectorate building of the Complutense University. Currently, the Complutense University is the largest university in Spain. During the 2004–2005 academic year the university recorded an enrollment of 91,598 students and employed a staff of 9,500, of  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 66 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Complutense_University_of_Madrid responseCode 3 200 