soeivivofimmggnalmvsucwmuapgvghsxkzkgaua length 6 417635 page 10028 Vital articles: Level 5 / People C‑class Willard Van Orman Quine has been listed as a level-5 vital article in People (Philosophers). If you can improve it, please do.Vital articlesWikipedia:WikiProject Vital articlesTemplate:Vital articlevital articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. This article is of interest to the following WikiProjects: Philosophy: Philosophers / Metaphysics / Epistemology / Logic / Science / Language / Analytic / Contemporary C‑class High‑importance Philosophy portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Philosophy, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of content related to philosophy on Wikipedia. If you would like to support the project, please visit the project page, where you can get more details on how you can help, and where you can join the general discussion about philosophy content on Wikipedia.PhilosophyWikipedia:WikiProject PhilosophyTemplate:WikiProject PhilosophyPhilosophy articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. High This article has been rated as High-importance on the project's importance scale. Associated task forces: / Philosophers Metaphysics Epistemology Logic Philosophy of science Philosophy of language Analytic philosophy Contemporary philosophy Linguistics: Philosophy of language C‑class Linguistics portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Linguistics, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of linguistics on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.LinguisticsWikipedia:WikiProject LinguisticsTemplate:WikiProject LinguisticsLinguistics articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. ??? This article has not yet received a rating on the project's importance scale. This article is supported by Philosophy of language task force. Biography: Science and Academia C‑class Biography portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Biography, a collaborative effort to create, develop and organize Wikipedia's articles about people. All interested editors are invited to join the project and contribute to the discussion. For instructions on how to use this banner, please refer to the documentation.BiographyWikipedia:WikiProject BiographyTemplate:WikiProject Biographybiography articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. This article is supported by the science and academia work group. United States: Ohio C‑class Low‑importance United States portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject United States, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of topics relating to the United States of America on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the ongoing discussions. Template Usage Articles Requested! Become a Member Project Talk Unreferenced BLPs Alerts United StatesWikipedia:WikiProject United StatesTemplate:WikiProject United StatesUnited States articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale. Ohio portal This article is supported by WikiProject Ohio. Skepticism C‑class Low‑importance This article is within the scope of WikiProject Skepticism, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of science, pseudoscience, pseudohistory and skepticism related articles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.SkepticismWikipedia:WikiProject SkepticismTemplate:WikiProject SkepticismSkepticism articles C This article has been rated as C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale. Vienna Circle[edit] Itt might be worth noting that although Quine rejected the synthetic/analytic distinction, he held onto other key doctrines of the Vienna Circle, e.g. that the scope of language is limited to verifiables; which restricts the scope of science dramatically. The claim that some physical object exists, for instance, is taken to mean only that it's useful for explaining our observations, not that it really exists. So material objects are defined in terms of our observations, and since our observations are also defined in terms of material objects (Quine even calls himself a physicalist), it's hard to see what's left. This whole spooky worldview or lack thereof is carried over fairly neatly from the Vienna Circle. An anecdote in one of Quine's books illustrates the distinction neatly; he said Carnap had complained about Quine's using the word "ontology" when it didn't mean anything, and Quine replied that in his ethics of terminology, words that didn't mean anything were precisely those ripe for redefinition. Presumably this would also apply to the word "exist" and some others. Quine is closer to the Vienna Circle and farther from common belief than his use of language leads people to believe. The same, incidentally, is true of Daniel Dennett, another student of Quine's as I recall. Should qua ("qua lay physicist") not be in italics? Anjouli 13:17, 14 Nov 2003 (UTC) I do not believe Quine to be a verificationist, as per the wiki article. In "Two Dogmas" Quine clams "So, if the verification theory can be accepted as an adequate account of statement synonymy, the notion of analyticity is saved after all." And later: "The dogma of reductionism, even in its attenuated form, is intimately connected with the other dogma: that there is a cleavage between the analytic and the synthetic. We have found ourselves led, indeed, from the latter problem to the former through the verification theory of meaning." And, once he has claimed that the analytic-synthetic distinction is wrong, together with the verificationist theory of meaning, he says "But the total field is so undetermined by its boundary conditions, experience, that there is much latitude of choice as to what statements to re-evaluate in the light of any single contrary experience. No particular experiences are linked with any particular statements in the interior of the field, except indirectly through considerations of equilibrium affecting the field as a whole." How are you getting Quine as a verificationist? This is simply not true. Nothing about our observations leads necessarily to the belief in material objects -- not even to the belief in physical objects. This is just to say that science is undertermined, that it proceeds by consensus, and that it is driven by practical considerations (he calls it an "extension of common sense")... not that science does not work, nor that science needs to proceed by verifiables. —Preceding unsigned comment added by 76.223.10.161 (talk) 23:24, 9 October 2009 (UTC)Reply[reply] Skepticism and indeterminacy[edit] The last part about indeterminacy of translation, beginning with "There is no way to escape this circle. In fact, it holds just as well in interpreting speakers of one's own language, and even one's own past utterances. This does not, contrary to a widely-disseminated caricature of Quine, lead to skepticism about meaning". I think it's controversial to say that Quine's theory of meaning isn't a skeptical position. I can not see anything on Philosophical skepticism that makes me think that Quine's theory of meaning can't be called skeptic from at least some point of view. I can't see how meaning-indeterminacy about one's own utterances follows from the field linguist-argument. Something must be missing in the argument. Davidw 20:41, 11 Aug 2004 (UTC) Ontology[edit] Quine's statements on ontology are overly grand. Why doesn't he say that philosophy is about what we know and may possibly know, and what we can say about what we know. That's very different and more﻿ modest than what there is, and what we can say about what there is. It seems to me that Quine is more or less hoist by his own petard. —Preceding unsigned comment added by 206.109.195.126 (talk) 22:33, 4 September 2009 (UTC)Reply[reply] Why does Quine reject synthetic/analytic distinction?[edit] The article would be improved if some rationale would be given for the Quines rejection because, as explained in the article, the synthetic/analytic distinction makes perfect sense to me. WpZurp 07:48, 7 Nov 2004 (UTC) I have just read the “Rejection of the analytic-synthetic distinction” section. I find it quite unconvincing. I don't really see his argument (at least as presented here) that bachelor & unmarried are rather not synonyms. The way its argument seems to be diddling on words. Can any one present a more formal argumentation? Xah Lee 21:34, 2005 Apr 27 (UTC) Not only are "bachelor" and "unmarried male" not synonyms (the key question I heard in a philo class was, "Is the Pope a bachelor?"), but I think (its been a while) that Quine's rejection hinges on the idea that an analytic statement must contain concepts that are logically equivalent (synonymous), but words are only synonymous insofar as they relate to the world in some way. Going at it the other way, the world is characterized in certain ways by the languages and the conceptual schemes, including logical equivalences, that are packed into those languages. So the distinction gets blurred either way you approach it. -Seth Mahoney 22:34, Apr 27, 2005 (UTC) The problem of "collateral information" is mentioned in the article and should be remembered when considering the problem of synonymy. The question whether two words are synonomous can be couched within the question of whether those two words are interchangable within the same sentence--that is, whether the meaning, understood perhaps in terms of the information they provide, if it is an informative sentence, is changed or remains the same contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:Willard_Van_Orman_Quine responseCode 3 200 