sojicgtkoolkfkgefosqkkcmkankbeoszofmemdg length 6 333246 page 10003 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Did you know... 31 January 2022 12:00, 31 January 2022 (UTC) Umar Zahir ... that Umar Zahir (pictured) built both an island of trash and an island of hope? ... that Kanye West originally wrote the chorus of "Gold Digger" from a female point of view? ... that in 2019, Paul Cosford and his colleagues found that lung cancer was more common in non-smokers than was generally thought? ... that the video game Pyongyang Racer was developed in North Korea for Koryo Tours, which organises tours to the country? ... that AI expert Tess Posner resigned her role as a CEO in order to concentrate on her music career? ... that the Syracuse House on Clinton Square was described by Charles Dickens as "the worst inn that ever was seen"? ... that Zimbabwean colonel Flint Magama, who was responsible for the killing of opposition politician Njini Ntuta, later received the country's highest award for military bravery? ... that at various secondary schools and universities, students eat entire heads of lettuce as quickly as possible? 00:00, 31 January 2022 (UTC) BP Building ... that the BP Building (pictured) features Europe's first example of "suspended construction"? ... that Da'ud, the heir apparent of the last Fatimid caliph, spent almost his entire life imprisoned by the succeeding Ayyubid dynasty? ... that Encanto's Mirabel is the first Disney heroine to wear glasses? ... that Siegfried Goldschmidt translated Kalidasa's epic poem Sêtubandhu from Prakrit into German? ... that the headless body of Thomas Aquinas was boiled, possibly in wine, after his canonization? ... that after going off the air due to financial issues, the control room of Texas radio station KBIL was set ablaze by an arsonist? ... that Elena Guseva's training as a choral conductor helped her analyse the score when playing Polina in Prokofiev's The Gambler at the Vienna State Opera? ... that the vegan-food brand Squeaky Bean produces food that does not contain beans? 30 January 2022 12:00, 30 January 2022 (UTC) Obverse of a double florin ... that the double florin (example pictured), a British coin, was criticised both for being too close in size to the crown and because the crown on it was too small? ... that when journalist Bill Fleischman was surprised by a radio advertisement about his next-day article, he just sat down and wrote it? ... that the Port of Shahid Rajaee is responsible for 85 percent of the total loading and unloading carried out at Iranian ports? ... that Lieutenant-Colonel Johannes Wilhelm Colenbrander and two others died on camera during the filming of the 1918 war film Symbol of Sacrifice? ... that part of the funding for the Columbus Monument in Syracuse, New York, was provided by Italian dictator Benito Mussolini? ... that in 2014, Trinidadian sprinter Deon Lendore won the highest award in National Collegiate Athletic Association track and field while at Texas A&M University? ... that Historia narodu polskiego, the first modern history of Poland, was never finished but was highly influential on emerging Polish historiography? ... that a pornographic video service once offered NFL quarterback Gardner Minshew a one-million-dollar endorsement deal based on his habit of exercising in nothing but a jockstrap? 00:00, 30 January 2022 (UTC) Fragments of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 ... that Jupiter is sometimes called a "cosmic vacuum cleaner" because of frequent impacts from asteroids and comets (example pictured)? ... that when baseball outfielder Brick Eldred was suspended by his team for refusing to pay a fine, another team acquired him, paid the fine, and gave him a raise? ... that Tana Tidung Regency is the smallest regency by land area in North Kalimantan and has the province's lowest poverty rate? ... that Michael Koomen was shot and killed while trying to calm the situation? ... that Jackie Kennedy teased former love interest Declan Costello that a 1955 double date involving them and their spouses had almost broken up the Kennedys' marriage? ... that David Bowie's 1999 album Hours was the first by a major artist available for download from the Internet? ... that businessman and activist Matthew Glover's charity challenged Pope Francis to become a vegan for Lent? ... that the American Committee for the Defense of British Homes donated a hunting rifle from Theodore Roosevelt to help defend Britain during the Second World War? 29 January 2022 12:00, 29 January 2022 (UTC) Woman presumed to be Louisa Bernie Gallaher ... that Smithsonian archivists are rediscovering the works of photography pioneer Louisa Bernie Gallaher (pictured) after they were misattributed to her boss? ... that the Doctor Who serial The Chase was to feature the Beatles dressed as old men, performing as part of a fictional 50th-anniversary concert, but the idea was rejected by their manager? ... that Garry Kasparov thought that a move by chess computer Deep Blue demonstrated its "superior intelligence", but the move was in fact caused by a software bug? ... that Albert Freedman was the first person indicted in the 1950s quiz show scandals? ... that Dan Lanning, who coached his final game at Georgia in the 2022 College Football Playoff National Championship, will face Georgia in his first game as the new head coach at Oregon? ... that Paul Gutama Soegijo travelled from Germany to Indonesia to study the gamelan instruments of Java for eight years? ... that the Amazon Venture oil spill, in which about 500,000 US gallons (1,900,000 litres) of oil spilled into the Savannah River, was caused by three valves that simultaneously malfunctioned? ... that Peruvian Viagra grows on the roots of plants? 00:00, 29 January 2022 (UTC) St. James Theatre ... that a 40-foot-tall (12 m) mural outside Broadway's St. James Theatre (pictured) was painted over due to a broken foot? ... that in 1887, after spending three nights on the summit of Mont Blanc, scientist Joseph Vallot and his party were greeted with flowers by the mayor and all the inhabitants of Chamonix? ... that staff at the vegan food brand VFC interact with internet trolls on social media platforms to grow their online brand? ... that American musician Kenneth Kilgore, who was inducted into the Oklahoma Jazz Hall of Fame, had a bridge posthumously named after him? ... that in 1951, 22 Greenlandic children were sent to foster families in Denmark to be re-educated as "little Danes"? ... that Kate Foster is the British ambassador to Somalia, but there are no consular services at the embassy in Mogadishu? ... that a billion dollars' worth of coal power in Turkey could be stranded? ... that the play-by-mail game Victory! The Battle for Europe takes about three years to play? 28 January 2022 12:00, 28 January 2022 (UTC) John William Kiser ... that John William Kiser (pictured), who arrived in Chicago "practically penniless", took advantage of a boom in bicycle usage when he formed the Monarch Bicycle company? ... that Pope Pius IX gave the monks of Saint Vincent Archabbey permission to brew Saint Vincent Beer? ... that DTK Computer was one of the first companies to have its computers sold via satellite television? ... that in Africa, the criminalization of homosexuality was a colonial imposition and the decriminalization of homosexuality is resisted as a neocolonial imposition? ... that Francis Martin, a Cistercian monk from the Bronx, became a leader in the Catholic charismatic renewal? ... that Singapore's North East MRT line saw the first launch of the Art-in-Transit (AiT) programme – a public artwork showcase on the MRT network? ... that journalist Jack Berry was influential  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 73 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2022/January responseCode 3 200 