sotgigxiqazqfsliwisqwezanghqxmimjcgmkopq page 6408 Help FAQs Index of FAQ topics Frequently asked questions (FAQs) Index of FAQs Main FAQ Overview Readers Schools Organizations Contributing Editing Featured articles Administrators Blocks Technical Problems Article subjects Categories Categorization Copyright Forking Templates Main Page Miscellaneous About Wikipedia Administration FAQ Contributing Tips Tasks Tutorial Help menu Directories Cheatsheet Asking questions Help desk Reference desk Teahouse Help desk See also Wikipedia:Questions, for other places to get answers. General FAQs Main FAQ – Main FAQ about using and contributing to Wikipedia. Overview FAQ – General questions about the Wikipedia project. Readers' FAQ – Finding, reading and using Wikipedia material. Schools' and Teachers' FAQ – Using Wikipedia in the classroom. Organizations and Business' FAQ – Guidelines for organizations and businesses about how you are represented in Wikipedia. Contributing FAQ – Why you might want to contribute to the Wikipedia project, and how you can do it. Editing FAQ – The ins and outs of creating and editing Wikipedia pages. Administration FAQ – What an administrator (or "sysop") is, sysop status, and server administration. Blocks FAQ – Information about blocks. Technical FAQ – Questions about Wikipedia software and hardware and their limitations. Problems FAQ – Questions relating to past or present difficulties and criticism. Article subjects' FAQ – Questions relating to an article about you, someone you represent, or your organization. Copyright FAQ – Questions pertaining to copyright issues. Template FAQ – Questions about templates. Miscellaneous FAQ – Everything else. Specific FAQs Forking FAQ – How to download Wikipedia content and/or software and/or create derivative works of Wikipedia. Categorization FAQ – Editor's guide to the Category feature. Categories FAQ – Readers' guide to categories. Main Page FAQ – How it works and other common answers. ClueBot NG FAQ – Specific to ClueBot NG Similar pages Citing Wikipedia – Detailed information about how to cite Wikipedia when you use it as a reference. Who writes Wikipedia – An overview of the process and people behind Wikipedia. Wikipedia:What is an article? – What constitutes an article. Glossary – Definitions of Wikipedia jargon and acronyms. See also Help contents – A page to guide you to the right place. Help directory – A descriptive directory of informative, instructional and supportive pages. The Wikipedia Help Desk – For questions about How to use Wikipedia. Troubleshooting – Help with various technical difficulties with accessing or editing Wikipedia pages. The Wikipedia Manual of Style – Stylistic guidebook to help keep Wikipedia's appearance self-consistent. Replies to common objections – Responses to common criticisms leveled at Wikipedia. Wikipedia:Press Kit – Resources for media inquiries, and corrections to common misconceptions about Wikipedia. For other useful directories and indexes, see Wikipedia:Directory. v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips v t e Wikipedia directories and indexes Administration pages Protocols Policies Guidelines Manual of Style Assistance Help directory Menu FAQs Interactive help Reader's index Tips Styletips Tools The community Portal Discussions Noticeboards Essays Editor's index Departments Maintenance WikiProjects MediaWiki Wikitext HTML Templates Locutions Abbreviations Edit summaries Glossary Shortcuts Encyclopedia proper Types Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Featured, good Featured articles Good articles Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Good topics Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Math Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology LOC, bios, times Academic disciplines Anniversaries Today Sovereign states and dependent territories Deaths this year Timelines Decades, centuries, and millennia Indexes A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Spoken articles contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:FAQ responseCode 3 200 