ssgawiggjcmapgzcngyebmfosovkymmelghiqelm length 6 321506 page 10014 Tutorial for newcomer contributors Wikipedia is made by people like you. This page takes you through a set of tutorials aimed at complete newcomers interested in contributing. It covers all the basics needed to navigate, comment on, and write Wikipedia articles. We're glad you're here — good luck in your journey to becoming a proficient Wikipedian! Starting introduction Wikipedia is a free encyclopedia, written collaboratively by the people who use it. Since 2001, it has grown rapidly to become the world's largest reference website, with 6.7 million articles in English attracting billions of views every month. For a more detailed account of the project, see About Wikipedia. How you can contribute Don't be afraid to edit – Anyone can edit almost every page; just find something that can be improved and make it better! You can add content (using references to support your claims), upload free-to-use images, correct spelling and grammar mistakes, improve prose to make it more readable, or help with any number of other tasks. It's normal for new contributors to feel a little overwhelmed by all of our policies, but don't worry if you don't understand everything at first; it's fine to use common sense as you edit, and if you accidentally make a mistake, another editor can always fix or improve it later. So go ahead, edit an article and help make Wikipedia the world's best information source! Suggest improvements – Each article also has a "Talk" page, where you can suggest improvements and corrections to the article. Donate – Wikipedia is free to use and edited entirely by volunteers, but it relies on donations to keep the servers running. Please consider donating to help fund the project's maintenance and development costs. Get to know some members of Wikipedia's diverse, enthusiastic community. Sign up for an account You're welcome to edit without creating an account, but there are many benefits of registering an account. It's quick and free. Sign up Want to try editing? You can test out how editing feels by editing one of the "sandbox" test pages below: Edit page visually or Edit using wiki markup Edit page visually or Edit using wiki markup Just type some text and click Publish page when you're happy with the way it looks. Don't worry about breaking anything; these pages are open areas for experimentation. There's plenty more behind the scenes Wikipedia has many community pages in addition to its articles. Task Center – List of tasks with which you can help Help pages – Support and advice Community portal – The hub for editors Policies and guidelines Shortcuts HELP:PG HELP:POLICY HELP:GUIDE Wikipedia actually has few strict rules, but rather is founded on five fundamental principles. Wikipedia's policies and guidelines are developed by the community to clarify these principles and describe the best way to apply them, resolve conflicts, and otherwise further our goal of creating a free and reliable encyclopedia. Policies express the fundamental principles of Wikipedia in more detail, and guidelines advise how to apply policies and how to provide general consistency across articles. Formal policies and guidelines have a notice at the top of their pages, and the prefix "Wikipedia:" or "WP:" before their page name. While there is a policy or guideline for almost every issue imaginable, no one is expected to know all of them! Luckily, there are a handful upon which all others are based. The next few sections describe the most significant of these, representing the general spirit of Wikipedia's rules. Knowing these basics makes discussions and editing easier and more productive. Content Wikipedia is an encyclopedia, and the community constantly strives for accuracy. Articles should be neutral and should contain only verifiable information and opinions that already exist in reliable sources. Neutral point-of-view (or NPOV) means that content is written objectively and without bias, merely presenting the facts and notable viewpoints of others. A general-purpose encyclopedia ought not contain articles that favor particular viewpoints. Striving for a neutral point-of-view helps prevent articles from becoming advertisements or propaganda. Try it! Take a quiz on neutrality Verifiability means that articles should contain only material that has been published by reliable sources, such as reputable newspapers and scholarly journals. All content should ideally be supported by a citation, but content that is controversial or likely to be challenged will definitely require one! Unsourced material may be removed at any time, and it is the obligation of the editor adding material to provide a reliable source. No original research means that articles may not contain previously unpublished arguments, concepts, data, opinions, or theories. This prohibition means that Wikipedia editors' own analysis or synthesis should not be included in articles. Basically, Wikipedia is a record of human knowledge, viewpoints, and summaries that already exist and are expressed elsewhere. Conduct Show WikiLove to other editors! Writing on Wikipedia is highly collaborative. There are two good starting points for how to get along with other editors: be bold, and be civil. When editing, be bold! Most edits make the encyclopedia better, and mistakes can always be reverted or corrected. If you see something that can be improved, improve it, and do not be overly concerned with breaking anything. If the change is in the spirit of improvement and makes sense to others, the odds are good that everything will turn out all right and the change will be kept. If not, it's easy for someone to change it back. Being civil entails remaining polite and assuming good faith when interacting with others, and focusing on the content of edits rather than on personal issues. It requires participating in a respectful and considerate way, without ignoring the positions and conclusions of others. Assuming good faith means that we assume by default that other people's intentions are to improve the project. If criticism or moderation is needed, we discuss editors' actions but do not accuse them of harmful motives without clear evidence. Editors typically reach consensus as a natural and inherent product of editing; generally, someone makes a change or addition to a page, then everyone who reads it has an opportunity to leave the page as it is or change it. Being reverted may feel a bit deflating, but do not take offense, as it is a common step in finding consensus. If you have a disagreement or suggestion, express it on the article's talk page, and politely discuss the change until a consensus can be reached. Never repeatedly undo another editor's edits; this is called edit warring and is disallowed. As a last resort, you can file a request for help resolving a dispute. Editing A note about editing on mobile devices: Most Wikipedians prefer to edit from a computer, as the editing interface works better there. You can edit from a mobile device, though. See this page for more information. Wikipedia is formatted using its own language called wiki markup, also called wikitext. It's pretty easy to learn the basics. You have a choice of using one of two editing tools; the "Source Editor" uses wiki markup. Alternatively, you can use VisualEditor, a secondary editing interface that works more like a WYSIWYG word processor. VisualEditor is somewhat simpler to use, but Source Editor is more effective for some tasks, and is the only one able to be used on Talk Pages. Elsewhere, you can easily switch between the two editing tools, as shown at right. Don't be afraid to click the edit button! To view and edit a page using wiki markup, click Edit or Edit source at the top of any page. This will allow you to type text that you want to add, using wiki markup to format the text and to add other elements like images and tables that are explained later in this tutorial. Wiki markup can initially seem intimidating (especially references) but it actually requires only a few rules to understand and use. These rules are listed under Help at the top of the Source Editor, and you'll quickly get used to them! You can always test new techniques in your personal "sandbox" page. Formatting Most articles actually need very little text formatting. All formatting is achieved by placing symbols on either side of blocks of text. You can either type the markup manually, or add it through the toolbar at the top of the editing area. Headings and subheadings can be added by clicking Advanced then Heading in the extra toolbar line which now appears. Selecting "Level 2" will format text as a main heading, the most frequently used subdivision of any page. "Level 3" gives you a subheading for a Level 2 heading, and so on. To create a heading without using the toolbar, put text between = signs; the number of = signs on each side of the text indicates the level: ==Heading== (Level 2) ===Subheading=== (Level 3) Text can be made bold or italic using the B and I buttons on the toolbar. To create bold or italics without using the toolbar, put text between ' apostrophes; three on each side for bold, or two on each side for italics. '''bold''' ''italic'' An article's subject is always written in bold the first time it is mentioned, but not thereafter. For detailed guidance on how and where bold and italic text should be used, see the Manual of Style sections on bold and italic formatting. Links and wikilinks A video tutorial about the basics of wiki markup, including creating links Wikilinks are one of the key components of Wikipedia. Wikilinks connect pages to each other, tying the whole encyclopedia together. In general, wikilinks should be added for the first mention of important or unfamiliar concepts in an article. Typically, wikilinks use square brackets, like this: [[target page]]. You can also insert them by clicking the icon. If you want to link to an article, but display some other text for the link, you can use a pipe | contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Introduction/All responseCode 3 200 