ssuqtqrmpersqojepkrobmhesgoojiborqamrcqa page 10008 See also: Lab Rats: Elite Force § Cast and characters This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "List of Mighty Med characters" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2022) (template removal help) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (September 2022) (template removal help) (template removal help) Mighty Med is an American Disney XD original series created by Jim Bernstein and Andy Schwartz and produced by It's a Laugh Productions for Disney XD. It stars Jake Short, Bradley Steven Perry, Paris Berelc, Devan Leos, and Augie Isaac. The series aired for two seasons, premiering on October 7, 2013, and running through September 9, 2015. Main[edit] Kaz (portrayed by Bradley Steven Perry) is Oliver's best friend. He is lazy in school and, while devoted to Oliver, he will often try to get away with a shortcut that ends up getting both him and Oliver into trouble. While he seems stupid sometimes, he can unexpectedly come up with a smart solution to a problem. It was revealed by Jordan in "Alan's Reign of Terror" that he has 11 siblings. In "Mighty Mole", it's revealed that Kaz's full name is Kazimeras. At the end of "The Mother of All Villains", exposure to the Arcturion gave Kaz and Oliver superpowers. Oliver (portrayed by Jake Short) is Kaz's best friend and puts up with his flaws because he sees good in him. He is intelligent, sweet, and sarcastic, the perfect yin to Kaz's yang. He is also in love with Skylar. He apparently has a fear of elbows, as shown in "Mighty Mole". In "Living the Dream", Oliver operated by Quimby Fletcher to have Ambrose write a story about his dream of the Arcturion. In "The Mother of All Villains", Oliver discovers that his mother Bridget is actually Mr. Terror. At the end of the episode, exposure to the Arcturion gave Oliver and Kaz superpowers. Skylar Storm (portrayed by Paris Berelc) is a superhero from the volcano planet Caldera and Oliver's love interest. Besides having peak human condition, some of Skylar's 24 superpowers include X-ray vision, explosive induction, time rewind, gyrokinesis, manipulation of celestial bodies, flight, super strength, intangibility, camouflage, invisibility, space survivability, and super speed. She recently lost her superpowers and her invisible motorcycle in a battle against her nemesis, Annihilator, and is now a normo patient at Mighty Med, where she is working to find a way to regain her superpowers. However, she still has amazing hand-to-hand combat skills, along with enhanced physical attributes, which can even become useful against super-powered beings. As a normo, she goes by the alias of Connecticut "Connie" Valentine when attending Logan High School. In the first-season finale, she regains her powers. However, she falls under Annihilator's control due to her tampering with them. While the Annihilator is at Mighty Max, Skylar is being used by the Annihilator to use a secret formula that turns superheroes into super villains. In "Storm's End", Skylar becomes evil enough to execute a powerful attack on the Annihilator and begin her own plans of conquering the galaxy. Using coal, Oliver tricks Skylar into thinking that he has given up as Hapax removes the corrupted powers from her. A weakened Annihilator shows up and uses Black Widower's poison power as Hapax transports Kaz, Oliver, and Skylar back to Mighty Med to get an antidote. Horace and the doctors work to keep Skylar from dying. After Skylar flatlines, Horace uses his abilities to revive her. In "Saving the people who save People" She uses the catchphrase "There's a storm coming... Skylar Storm" when fighting Megahertz in Mighty Med. Alan Diaz (portrayed by Devan Leos) is the nephew of Horace. He slightly dislikes Kaz and Oliver because of their status as normos, so he does everything in his power to get rid of them. Although there are some occasions where he helps Kaz and Oliver. He seems to like Kaz a little more than Oliver, as shown in "How the Mighty Med Have Fallen" when they were trapped at Mighty Max. He is always seen wearing a sweater vest, and it's suggested in "Lair, Lair" that he wears several sweater vests on top of each other. His power is telekinesis. In "Growing Pains", it is revealed that when Alan gets scared, he either turns into an animal or sprouts an animal body part. He also has the ability to turn other people into animals, as seen in "Mighty Mole". He apparently doesn't know the difference between a circle and a triangle and is bad with grammar due to his lack of education. In "The Mother of All Villains", Alan tries to find a good wedding gift for Bridget and Horace, which leads to him unknowingly obtaining the Arcturion. During the wedding, he ends up learning that Optimo is his father. At the end of the episode, it is discovered that Alan's grandfather is Hapax the Elder. Gus (portrayed by Augie Isaac) (recurring season 1, starring season 2) is Kaz and Oliver's friend, but is unaware of their secret job. He is very quirky, sometimes unlikable, and lacks normal social skills. Over time, a crush on Jordan appears to have revealed itself. Gus' character started out as recurring, but became a series regular in the second season. Throughout the whole series, it has been mentioned that his family is rich, even capable of buying The Domain, as seen in "Are You Afraid of the Shark?" He always keeps strange things in his backpack or wallet. In "Stop Bugging Me", it is revealed that Gus owns a cheetah. In "The Dirt on Kaz & Skylar", it is revealed that Gus owns a bobcat. In "The Mother of All Villains", Oliver enlisted Gus to help him crack the code on Mort's cell phone. Gus later buys a lot of wedding presents for Bridget and Horace. Recurring[edit] Jordan (portrayed by Cozi Zuehlsdorff) is Kaz and Oliver's friend and hates Gus. She is very negative. Just like Kaz and Oliver, she loves video games and comics. Stefanie (portrayed by Brooke Sorenson) is the popular girl at Logan High School. Mighty Med hospital staff[edit] Horace Diaz (portrayed by Carlos Lacámara) is the chief of staff of Mighty Med and is Alan's maternal uncle. He has the power of freezing people and is a bit eccentric. He apparently loves bridges. In "Atomic Blast from the Past", he is revealed to be 3,006 years old and has never aged since 1953. Some even consider that he is immortal. In "Storm's End", it is revealed that Horace is actually Caduceo and can only restore life five times with the side effect of having him gain weight in the hips. He appears in most of the episodes, despite only having a guest star role. Benny (portrayed by Karan Soni) is a worker at Mighty Med and a superhero named What's His Face. He has super speed, but it only works when he runs backwards. In addition, Benny has the ability to throw objects in slow motion. In "Saving The People Who Save People", it is shown that he dislikes Skylar. Lizard Man (portrayed by Dirk Ellis) is a humanoid lizard who stays at Mighty Med because he doesn't fit anywhere else. He is a frequently recurring character seen as an employee at Mighty Med. Philip (portrayed by Jeremy Howard) is an alien doctor with a large head, though it is very small compared to other inhabitants of his planet. He appears to dislike almost everyone at Mighty Med, even Horace. He frequently appears with very minor roles. In "Night of the Living Nightmare", it is revealed that his wildest dream is to have the Oscar Awards redesigned to look like him. In "The Claw Prank Redemption", it is revealed that Philip is the new security guard for Mighty Max. In "The Mother of All Villains", it is revealed that Philip is from the planet Baaaaahh and worked as a janitor at the time when his kind created the Arcturion. Following the incident where the spaceship crashed on Philadelphia, Philip was banished to Philadelphia. He also mentioned that his planet's president has the second smallest head. Philip also claimed that any mortal who touches the Arcturion would be vanquished. The Newscaster (portrayed by Angela Martinez) is the unnamed news anchor for a news channel exclusively for superheroes that is shown on the televisions at Mighty Med. She doesn't occur in most episodes. Ambrose (Oliver Muirhead) is a member of Mighty Med's comic book department. He has the power to see visions of other heroes' lives, allowing him to write and illustrate incredibly fast. Ambrose agrees with Kaz and Oliver's idea to fudge some details to boost sales. He also does not seem to be paid well since he has to use a saw to sharpen his pencils. He was mentioned in "Storm's End", where Kaz had to change the expressions of his face from scared to not scared just in case Ambrose got a vision of the fight between Annihilator and Hapax. In "Living the Dream", Ambrose gets a new drawing table in the form of Lizard Man. When Oliver tells Ambrose about Kaz's dream of the Arcturion, Ambrose takes Oliver's suggestion to give Oliver the alias of Quimby Fletcher. He later helps Oliver into locating Kaz after he was abducted by Mr. Terror's minions. Superheroes[edit] Tecton (portrayed by Jilon VanOver) is Kaz's favorite superhero who is a parody of Superman and Hyperion. He has superhuman strength and speed as well as flight, immunity to pain, and the ability to cause tectonic activity with a stomp of his foot. He is also capable of healing at a rapid rate, but if exposed to a gas that only exists when delta radiation mixes with gold, he will not be able to heal. In "So You Think You Can Be a Sidekick", Oliver was his sidekick until Alan took his place. In "La contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 63 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/List_of_Mighty_Med_characters responseCode 3 200 