sswquekgjsooqissuayebszkmaxcvqnsekdmfeug page 10035 March 2022 incident during the Russian invasion of Ukraine Irpin refugee column shelling Part of the Battle of Irpin Refugees fleeing from Russian bombardments over a bridge in Irpin Location Irpin intersection, Ukraine Date March 6, 2022 (2022-03-06) Target Ukrainians Attack type Mortar strikes, explosive projectiles Deaths 8[1] Perpetrator Russian Armed Forces[2] v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia On 6 March 2022, from 9:30 a.m. until 2 p.m. local time, the Russian Armed Forces repeatedly shelled an intersection in Irpin that hundreds of civilians were using to escape to Kyiv, whilst a Ukrainian artillery position was located nearby. They killed eight Ukrainian civilians. Human Rights Watch alleged the Russian army carried out an unlawful, indiscriminate, and disproportionate attack. The incident was part of an assault on Irpin, during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. History[edit] On 6 March 2022 there were hundreds of civilians at the intersection on the P30 road, near the St. George's Ukrainian Orthodox Church, just south of a bridge that the Ukrainian army had destroyed to hinder the Russian invasion. The civilians were fleeing the Russian army's advance from Irpin towards Kyiv. In the intersection near the bridge were a dozen Ukrainian soldiers, some helping the civilians carry their luggage and children.[1][3] The Ukrainian artillery was firing mortar rounds from a position about 180 meters away.[1][3] No agreements had been reached between the parties about a temporary ceasefire or humanitarian corridor.[1] Journalists of The New York Times and freelance journalists on the scene report that for several hours the Russian army bombarded the intersection that the civilians were using to flee.[1][3] The Russians fired explosive projectiles into the area, with projectiles hitting the intersection or the surrounding area every 10 minutes,[1] killing at least eight civilians, as reported by the Ukrainian authorities.[1][4] Among the victims were a group of four, including two children, who were killed by a mortar strike.[5][6][7][8] According to Human Rights Watch, it is possible that the projectiles were "observed" by the Russians, who would then know where they were landing and could easily have adjusted the aim away from the intersection. Instead they engaged in prolonged shelling of the intersection being used by civilians, which indicates "potential recklessness or deliberateness" on their part. The repeated nature of the attacks suggests that Russian forces "violated their obligations under international humanitarian law not to conduct indiscriminate or disproportionate attacks that harm civilians, and failed to take all feasible measures to avoid civilian casualties."[1] The human rights organisation also stated that the Ukrainian forces "have an obligation to take all feasible precautions to avoid or minimize civilian harm," such as refraining from engaging in combat in populated areas.[1] See also[edit] Russian war crimes 1999 Grozny refugee convoy shooting References[edit] ^ a b c d e f g h i "Ukraine: Russian Assault Kills Fleeing Civilians". Human Rights Watch. March 8, 2022. Archived from the original on March 9, 2022. Retrieved March 9, 2022. ^ Trofimov, Yaroslav (6 March 2022). "Russian Artillery Kills Ukrainian Civilians Fleeing Kyiv Suburb". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on 5 April 2022. Retrieved April 5, 2022. ^ a b c Addario, Lynsey (6 March 2022). "Russian forces fire on evacuees, leaving 4 people dead outside Kyiv". New York Times. Archived from the original on 13 March 2022. Retrieved 13 March 2022. ^ "8 civilians killed during evacuation from Irpin near Kyiv". The Kyiv Independent. 6 March 2022. Retrieved 2022-03-31. ^ Lynsey Addario, Andrew E. Kramer (March 6, 2022). "Ukrainian Family's Dash for Safety Ends in Death". The New York Times. Archived from the original on March 9, 2022. Retrieved March 9, 2022. ^ Paulina Villegas, David L. Stern and Sarah Cahlan (March 6, 2022). "Two Ukrainian children killed 'in front of my own eyes' while trying to evacuate, official says". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on March 9, 2022. Retrieved March 13, 2022. ^ "Man returns after family killed near Kyiv, says his "beloved wife is lying in a black bag on the floor" of a morgue". www.cbsnews.com. CBS News. 10 March 2022. Archived from the original on 2022-03-30. Retrieved 2022-03-31. ^ Said, Carolyn (9 March 2022). "Silicon Valley tech worker was the Ukrainian mom lying dead on street in brutal photo that sparked outrage". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved 2022-03-31. v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Part of the Russo-Ukrainian War Overview General Outline Timeline Prelude (February – April 2022) (April – August 2022) (August – November 2022) (November 2022 – June 2023) (June 2023 – August 2023) (September 2023 – present) Aerial warfare Defense lines Foreign fighters Information war Naval warfare Legality Map Order of battle Peace negotiations Proposed no-fly zone Red lines Reparations Territorial control Women Prelude Reactions Disinformation Ukraine bioweapons conspiracy theory Ukraine and weapons of mass destruction 2021 Russia–United States summit 2021 Black Sea incident Belarus–European Union border crisis "On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians" Crimea Platform Zapad 2021 Ukraine cyberattacks Union Resolve 2022 Stanytsia Luhanska kindergarten bombing British–Polish–Ukrainian trilateral pact Evacuation of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Mobilization in Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR "Address concerning the events in Ukraine" "On conducting a special military operation" Background Dissolution of the Soviet Union 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine historical background Annexation of Crimea reactions War in Donbas 2022 timeline Minsk agreements humanitarian situation international recognition of the Donetsk PR and Luhansk PR Putinism Foundations of Geopolitics Novorossiya Ruscism Russian irredentism Russian imperialism Foreign relations Russia–Ukraine Belarus–Ukraine Belarus–Russia Russia–United States Russia–NATO Ukraine–NATO enlargement of NATO eastward expansion controversy in Russia open door policy Military engagements Southern Ukraine Snake Island campaign Siege of Mariupol Battle of Kherson Battle of Melitopol Battle of Mykolaiv Battle of Enerhodar Battles of Voznesensk Battle of Huliaipole Battle of Orikhiv Battle of Davydiv Brid Kherson counteroffensive Liberation of Kherson Dnieper campaign Destruction of the Kakhovka Dam Eastern Ukraine Battle of Avdiivka Battle of Marinka Battle of Volnovakha Battle of Kharkiv Battle of Izium Battle of Rubizhne Battle of Popasna Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Battle of Kreminna Battle of the Siverskyi Donets Battle of Sievierodonetsk Battle of Toshkivka First Battle of Lyman Battle of Sviatohirsk Battle of Lysychansk Battle of Siversk Battle of Pisky Battle of Bakhmut Battle of Soledar Battle of Vuhledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Battle of Balakliia Battle of Kupiansk Second Battle of Lyman Luhansk Oblast campaign Northern Ukraine Battle of Antonov Airport Capture of Chernobyl Battle of Hlukhiv Battle of Ivankiv Battle of Kyiv Battle of Hostomel Battle of Vasylkiv Battle of Bucha Battle of Irpin Battle of Makariv Russian Kyiv convoy Battle of Moshchun Battle of contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 63 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Irpin_refugee_column_shelling responseCode 3 200 