talotkhmtekorqkaoisirqjsfkvoyojclcxmrola length 5 61395 page 2137 This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (April 2023) (template removal help) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Anarkali Salwar Suit" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2023) (template removal help) (template removal help) Indian Salwar kameez Indian actress Priyanka Chopra modeling an Anarkali suit. An anarkali salwar suit is a type of salwar kameez for women made up of a long frock-style top and features a slim fitted bottom. It varies in length and embroidery such as floor-length and usually ends up at the knees. Anarkali suits owe their name to the legendary Anarkali, a courtesan in the court of Mughal Emperor Akbar. According to the legend, she was murdered for her illicit relationship with Crown Prince Salim, who later became Emperor Jahangir.[1] The word anarkali translates to the "delicate bud of the pomegranate flower/tree." This name signifies the qualities of softness, vulnerability, innocence, and beauty associated with the women who wore anarkalis. This dress is generally worn by Kathak dancers. With the development, the mid-length and floor-length anarkali became popular. The demand is finally increasing, and it is one of the most popular salwar kameez styles. It is known for its long, flowing kurtas that beautifully complement every woman's look. Types[edit] The following are some of the different types of Anarkali Suits:[2] Floor-Length Pakistani Cape Style Jacket Style Layered Gown Style Palazzo Churidar References[edit] ^ "Legend: Anarkali: myth, mystery and history | DAWN.COM". Archived from the original on 2012-12-14. ^ "Types of Anarkalis that should Grace Every Woman's Wardrobe". 2 January 2020. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 54 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Anarkali_Salwar_Suit responseCode 3 200 