tapoggroceritooqhksouslewoeeggpkygrqfsrc length 6 387250 page 10011 1810 revolution in Buenos Aires May Revolution Part of the Spanish American wars of independence The open cabildo on May 22, 1810, by Pedro Subercaseaux, depiction of the May 22 open cabildo Date May 25, 1810 Location Buenos Aires Also known as Revolución de Mayo Cause Popular sovereignty Motive Abdications of Bayonne Target Self-governance Outcome The Primera Junta seize the government, ousting the Spanish viceroy Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros and launching a series of military expeditions that began the Argentine War of Independence.[1] The Spanish government deny it any measure of legitimacy and fight to preserve the integrity of the Spanish monarchy. The May Revolution (Spanish: Revolución de Mayo) was a week-long series of events that took place from May 18 to 25, 1810, in Buenos Aires, capital of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. This Spanish colony included roughly the territories of present-day Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, and parts of Brazil. The result was the removal of Viceroy Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros and the establishment of a local government, the Primera Junta (First Junta), on May 25. The May Revolution was a direct reaction to Napoleon's invasion of Spain. In 1808, King Ferdinand VII of Spain abdicated in favor of Napoleon, who granted the throne to his brother, Joseph Bonaparte. A Supreme Central Junta led resistance to Joseph's government and the French occupation of Spain, but eventually suffered a series of reversals that resulted in the Spanish loss of the northern half of the country. On February 1, 1810, French troops took Seville and gained control of most of Andalusia. The Supreme Junta retreated to Cádiz, formed the Council of Regency of Spain and the Indies to govern, and dissolved itself. News of these events arrived in Buenos Aires on May 18, brought by British ships. Viceroy Cisneros tried to maintain the political status quo, but a group of criollo lawyers and military officials organized an open cabildo (a special meeting of notables of the city) on May 22 to decide the future of the Viceroyalty. The Regency of Spain was the prelude to the Spanish Cortes of Cádiz of 1810 and the Spanish Constitution of 1812. All of these Spanish governments considered the Argentine Junta to be insurgent and denied it any legitimacy to govern the territories of the viceroyalty. At the other end, delegates of the Junta refused to recognize the Council of Regency in Spain and established a junta to govern in place of Cisneros, as the government that had appointed him Viceroy no longer existed. To maintain a sense of continuity, Cisneros was initially appointed president of the Junta. However, this caused much popular unrest, and so Cisneros resigned under pressure on May 25. The newly formed government, the Primera Junta, included only representatives from Buenos Aires and invited other cities of the Viceroyalty to send delegates to join them. The revolutionary army began the war and this resulted in the outbreak of a secessionist Civil war between the regions that accepted the outcome of the events at Buenos Aires and those that remained loyal to Spain.[2][3] The May Revolution began the Argentine War of Independence, although no declaration of independence from Spain was issued at the time and the Primera Junta continued to govern in the name of the king, Ferdinand VII, as a subordinate king to popular sovereignty. As similar events occurred in many other cities of the continent, the May Revolution is also considered one of the early events of the Spanish American wars of independence. The question of the mask of Ferdinand is particularly controversial in Argentinean History. Historians today debate whether the revolutionaries were truly loyal to the Spanish crown, or whether the declaration of fidelity to the king was a necessary ruse to conceal the true objective—to achieve independence—from a population that was not yet ready to accept such a radical change, but there is strong evidence of the truly loyal to the Spanish crown.[4] The Argentine Declaration of Independence was issued at the Congress of Tucumán on July 9, 1816. Causes[edit] Main article: Causes of the May Revolution International causes[edit] The rule of Joseph Bonaparte as King of Spain was resisted by Spaniards, and cast doubts on the legitimacy of the Spanish viceroys. The U.S. declaration of independence from Great Britain in 1776 led criollos (Spanish peoples born in the Americas) to believe that revolution and independence from Spain were feasible.[5][6] Between 1775 and 1783, the American patriots of the Thirteen Colonies waged a war against both the local loyalists and the Kingdom of Great Britain, eventually establishing a republican government in the place of a constitutional monarchy. The fact that Spain had aided the colonies during their war with Britain weakened the idea that it would be a crime to end one's allegiance to the parent state.[7] The ideals of the French Revolution of 1789 spread across Europe and the Americas as well.[8] The overthrow and execution of King Louis XVI and Queen Marie Antoinette ended centuries of monarchy and removed the privileges of the nobility. Liberal ideals in the political and economic fields developed and spread through the Atlantic Revolutions across most of the Western world. The concept of the divine right of kings was questioned by the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, by the oft-quoted statement that "all men are created equal" in the United States Declaration of Independence and even by the Spanish church.[5] However, the spread of such ideas was forbidden in the Spanish territories, as was the sale of related books or their unauthorized possession.[9] Spain instituted those bans when it declared war on France after the execution of Louis XVI and retained them after the peace treaty of 1796.[5] News of the events of 1789 and copies of the publications of the French Revolution spread around Spain despite efforts to keep them at bay.[9][10] Many enlightened criollos came into contact with liberal authors and their works during their university studies, either in Europe or at the University of Chuquisaca (modern Sucre).[11] Books from the United States found their way into the Spanish colonies through Caracas, owing to the proximity of Venezuela to the United States and the West Indies.[12] The US Declaration of Independence inspired similar movements in the Spanish colonies in South America. The Industrial Revolution started in Britain, with the use of plateways, canals and steam power. This led to dramatic increases in the productive capabilities of Britain,[13] and created a need for new markets to sell its products.[14] The Napoleonic Wars with France made this a difficult task, after Napoleon imposed the Continental System, which forbade his allies and conquests to trade with Britain. Thus Britain looked to new sources of trade, including Spain's colonies in South America, but could not do so because the colonies were restricted to trade only with Spain.[15] To achieve this economic objective, Britain initially tried to invade Rio de la Plata and capture key cities in Spanish America.[16] When that failed, they chose to promote the Spanish-American aspirations of emancipation from Spain.[15][17] The mutiny of Aranjuez in 1808 led King Charles IV of Spain to abdicate in favor of his son, Ferdinand VII.[18] Charles IV requested that Napoleon restore him to the throne; instead, Napoleon crowned his own brother, Joseph Bonaparte, as the new Spanish King.[18][19] These events are known as the Abdications of Bayonne. Joseph's coronation was met with severe resistance in Spain, which started the Peninsular War, and the Supreme Central Junta took power in the name of the absent king.[20] This also led to Spain switching alliances from France to Britain.[14] France eventually invaded Sevilla, and a Council of Regency based in Cadiz replaced the disbanded Supreme Central Junta.[21] National causes[edit] William Carr Beresford surrenders to Santiago de Liniers during the British invasions of the Río de la Plata. Spain forbade its American colonies to trade with other nations or foreign colonies, and imposed itself as the only buyer and vendor for their international trade.[22] This situation damaged the viceroyalty, as Spain's economy was not powerful enough to produce the huge supply of goods that the numerous colonies would need. This caused economic shortages and recession.[22][23] The Spanish trade routes favored the ports of Mexico and Lima, to the detriment of Buenos Aires.[24] As a result, Buenos Aires smuggled those products that could not be obtained legitimately.[25] Most local authorities allowed this smuggling as a lesser evil, even though it was illegal, and it occasionally equalled in volume the legal commerce with Spain.[26] Two antagonistic factions emerged: the landowners wanted free trade so they could sell their products abroad, while the merchants, who benefited from the high prices of smuggled imports, opposed free trade because prices would come down.[27] The coronation of Infanta Carlota Joaquina was considered an alternative to revolution. The Spanish monarchy appointed their own candidates to most of the political offices in the viceroyalty, usually favoring Spaniards from Europe.[28] In most cases, the appointees had little knowledge of or interest in local issues. Consequently, there was a growing rivalry between criollos and peninsulars (those born in Spain). Most criollos thought that peninsulars had undeserved advantages and received preferential treatment in politics and society.[22] The lower clergy had a similar sentiment about the higher echelons of the religious hierarchy.[26] Events developed at a slower pace than in the United States independence movement.[29] This was in part because the clergy controlled the entire educational system in Spanish America, which led the population to hold the same con contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/May_Revolution responseCode 3 200 