tatawkmoqgcqzcjileamwidscqnmroegecicdmga length 6 202199 page 10132 National police agency of Myanmar (Burma) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Myanmar Police Force" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2020) (template removal help) Myanmar Police Force မြန်မာနိုင်ငံ ရဲတပ်ဖွဲ့ Coat of arms Emblem Flag Agency overview Formed 1964; 59 years ago (1964) Preceding agency Indian Imperial Police Employees 93,000 (2012)[1] Jurisdictional structure Operations jurisdiction Myanmar Legal jurisdiction Myanmar General nature Civilian police Operational structure Headquarters Naypyidaw Elected officer responsible Yar Pyae, Minister of Home Affairs Agency executive Lieutenant general Ni Lin Aung, Chief of Police[2] Parent agency Ministry of Home Affairs Child agencies State and Division Police Special Forces Training Department Reserve Units Combat Police Battalions Anti-Narcotics Task Force Website Official website The Myanmar Police Force (Burmese: မြန်မာနိုင်ငံ ရဲတပ်ဖွဲ့), formerly the People's Police Force (ပြည်သူ့ရဲတပ်ဖွဲ့), is the law enforcement agency of Myanmar. It was established in 1964 as an independent department under the Ministry of Home Affairs. History[edit] The Police Force in Myanmar have an extensive history; the police force also includes local police and regional police in different jurisdictions. British rule in Myanmar[edit] The primary police force in British Burma was the Burma Police. In addition, there was a paramilitary Burma Military Police, the Railway Police, and the Rangoon Town Police. From roughly 1891, most executive positions within the Burma Police were filled by members of the Indian Imperial Police cadre. In 1872 the third mayor of Mergui District, Sir Ashly Din (1870–1875) assigned the first police officer to be stationed at Maliwan, a village 24 miles north of current Victoria Point. Perhaps the most famous policeman in Burma from this period is the author George Orwell, who in 1922 joined the Indian Imperial Police in Burma. Another famous colonial policeman in Burma was Hector Hugh Munro, known as Saki. Post-independence (1948–present)[edit] Myanmar police officers blocking protesters in Bahan Township, Yangon. On 16 March 1988 following the killing of two students during the pro-democracy demonstrations, students marching on Prome Road were confronted near Inya Lake by the Lon Htein security force riot police and many beaten to death or drowned. The national police are made up of several smaller entities, including Myanmar Railways Police Intelligence division Organisation[edit] The current director general of Myanmar Police Force is Major General Zin Min Htet with its headquarters in Naypyidaw. Its command structure is based on established civil jurisdictions. Under the command of police headquarters, state and region police forces have been established in respective territories of states and divisions with headquarters in their capital cities.[3] State and division police forces[edit] There are 14 state and divisional police forces and three additional state/division police forces commanded by police brigadiers or colonels. Their jurisdictions are divided according to the Civil Administration. The states and divisions, additional states have the same status. Each state and divisional police force consist of four components. Office of the Commander of the State and Divisional Police Force Office of the Commander of the District Police Force Office of the Commander of the Township Police Force Police Stations In previous time, the district police forces are classified into two classes depending on the area, population and development, namely A and B Class. Commanders of the A Class District Police Forces are police lieutenant colonels, and B Classes are police majors, but there is no classification and all districts assigned with lieutenant colonel. Commanders of township police forces are police majors, and police station officers are police captains. Special Departments[edit] There are four Special Departments, in which the first ten departments are headed by the police brigadier generals and the remaining two are by police colonels. Security Police Force Border Guard Police Force Special Intelligence Department (Special Branch) Criminal Investigation Department (CID) Railways Police Department Anti-human Trafficking Police Force Maritime Police force Aviation Police Force Drug Enforcement Division Financial Investigation force Myanmar Traffic Police Tourist Security Police Force Oil Field Security Police Force Forestry Security Police Force Highway Police Force Municipal Police Department Training Centres[edit] There are three main Training Centers, one Central Training Institute of Myanmar Police Force and Three Police Training Depots. The State and Divisional Police Forces have their own training centres for refresher courses and Junior Leader (NCO) Courses. Bachelor's degree holders from Distance Learning University were disqualified from sitting the SIP exam. Thus vast numbers of Bachelor holding police personal were concerned for their future. Course Name Duration Deputy Superintendent Cadet Course 50 weeks Sub-Inspector Cadet Course 6 weeks Surveillance Officer Course 6 weeks Investigation Officer Course 6 weeks Police Station Officer Course 8 weeks Staff Officer Course 6 weeks Township Police Commander Course 8 weeks District Police Commander Course 12 weeks No. 1 Police Training Depot[edit] The No.1 Police Training Depot is commanded by a Police Lieutenant Colonel and undertakes: Course Name Duration Basic Training Course for Lance Corporal and Corporal 4 weeks Warrant Officer and Police Sergeants Course 12 Weeks Basic Training Course for Constables 24 weeks Clerical Training 4 weeks Instructor Renewal Course 4 weeks No. 2 Police Training Depot[edit] The No.2 Police Training Depot is also commanded by a Police Lieutenant Colonel, and undertakes only Basic Training Course for Constables, which normally takes around 6 months to complete. Course Name Duration Basic Training Course for Constables 6 Months Taung Lay Lone Police Training Depot[edit] The Taung Lay Lone Police Training Depot is commanded by a Police Lieutenant Colonel and undertakes: Course Name Duration Basic Training Course for lance corporal and Corporal 4 weeks Warrant Officer and Police Sergeants Course 12 Weeks Basic Training Course for Constables 6 Months Combat Police Battalions (SWAT)[edit] There are sixteen Police Battalions to carry out general security duties under the command of Battalion Control Command. The Battalion Commandants are Police Lieutenant Colonels. As the populace of the cities including Yangon and Mandalay have been increased day after day, problems on social, economy and politics are risen up that could lead to emergence of civil unrest and sabotage. It is necessary to prevent from destruction and harassment, VIP and project factories and workshops, security of diplomats and their embassies. Seven of these Police Battalions are situated in the Yangon Divisional areas and two in Mandalay and three in Arakan, one in Sagaing, one in Mon State, one in Pegu, one in Prome. These specially-trained and combat capable battalions are formed with personnel from former Riot Security Police, better known as "Lon Htein" Units. Each battalion consists of 500+ personnel and these battalions are supported by two support battalions, which include signal and medical units. These battalions structure are similar to that of Army's Light Infantry Battalions and they are subordinate to their respective Regional Military Commands.[1] 1st Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Hlawga) 2nd Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Maungtaw) 3rd Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Shwemyayar) 4th Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Shwesaryan) 5th Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Hmawbi) 6th Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Shwepyitha) 7th Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Kyauktan) 8th Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Mingaladon) 9th Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Hlaingthaya) 10th Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Pyay/Prome) 11th Combat Police Battalion 12th Combat Police Battalion 14th Combat Police Battalion (HQ at Pa Lake, Mandalay) 15th Combat Police Battalion 16th Combat Police Battalion Anti-Narcotic Task Forces[edit] 26 special anti-narcotic task forces have been established under the direction of the Central Committee for Drug Abuse Control. Weapons and equipment[edit] Myanmar Police Force uses wide range of weapons and ammunitions, ranging from Second World War vintage to modern sophisticated weapons. Most of the weapons are either seized from ethnic wars and narco-insurgents or locally produced copies of the G3 and other weapons phased out of their army. Pistols[edit] Enfield revolver Colt Detective Special Ka Pa Sa MA5 MKI Ka Pa Sa MA5 MKII Sub machine guns[edit] Heckler & Koch MP5 (Norinco made NR-08) Ka Pa Sa BA-52 Sten Gun BA93 BA94 MA13 MKI MA13 MKII Shotguns[edit] Greener GP 12 Gauge Shotgun Rifles[edit] M1 carbine Type-56 Carbine Type 63 assault rifle M1 Garand Lee–Enfield Rifles[4] AK-47 series (Including Chinese Type 56) M16 rifle M4 carbine Norinco CQ Norinco QBZ 97 Ka Pa Sa BA63 Ka Pa Sa MA11 Ka Pa Sa MA3 Machine gun[edit] Bren Gun Ka Pa Sa BA64 Ka Pa Sa MA12 Type 81 lmg (seized from narco ethnic insurgents) Type 56 lmg (seized from narco ethnic insurgents) Sniper rifle[edit] M40 rifle (seized from ethnic and narcotic insurgents) Ka Pa Sa BA100 Ka Pa Sa MAS MKII Non-Lethal Weapons[edit] Taser Pepper Spray cans Pepper-spray projectile gun Pepperball Rubber, beanbag, & plastic bullet Baton Riot shield M84 stun grenade Tear gas M6/M7 series chemical grenade Sting grenade Automobiles[edit] Cars and Trucks[edit] Japan cars (confiscated item), Chevrolet Suburban (confiscated item), Range Rover donated by Foreign Organisations for Anti-drugs Enforcement, Mercedes Benz C-Class sedan (confiscated item), Toyota Dyna paddy wago contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 54 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Myanmar_Police_Force responseCode 3 200 