tejkogpsdiairevkjaugbgvgzocaoeqexmxipkjk length 6 333914 page 10014 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 30 April 2021 12:00, 30 April 2021 (UTC) Inkeri Anttila ... that Inkeri Anttila (pictured), Finland's first female minister of justice, was also the first woman in Finland to complete a doctorate in law? ... that women in the Shaheen Bagh protest, who blocked a major road in Delhi for 101 days, included 82-year-old Bilkis? ... that ichthyologist C. Richard Robins and his wife Catherine were honoured jointly in the name of the false moray Robinsia catherinae? ... that Das Leiden Jesu von seinen Freunden, one of Christoph Graupner's church cantatas, reflects how Jesus suffered from his friends, and ends with a chorale fantasia "full of dissonances"? ... that the character Tom Bombadil, omitted by Peter Jackson in his later version, appears in a Russian film of The Lord of the Rings? ... that after coming back for a fifth season at Stanford, Anna Wilson won the 2021 NCAA Division I Women's Basketball Championship Game with the Cardinal? ... that the 2019 children's picture book Birdsong portrays intergenerational relationship using seasonal cycles? ... that after Rhoda, Lady Birley, made fish stew with cognac for her roses, her daughter said that they "almost cried out with pleasure"? 00:00, 30 April 2021 (UTC) 330 West 42nd Street ... that James H. McGraw Jr., who selected the blue-green facade panels for 330 West 42nd Street (pictured), was said to be "appalled" at the color of the building? ... that the basic design for the sitaras that decorate the Kaaba dates back to the 16th century? ... that when Edward Mitchell Bannister won a first prize for painting at the 1876 Philadelphia Centennial, officials tried to rescind the award upon realizing he was African-American? ... that despite losing the 1990 Football League Third Division play-off Final, Tranmere Rovers were temporarily promoted to the Second Division? ... that Olena Tokar, a soprano of the Leipzig Opera from Ukraine, recorded Charmes, a collection of art songs by women including Clara Schumann and Vítězslava Kaprálová? ... that the 2015 children's picture book Timeline chronologically illustrates major world events, including the Big Bang and the Fukushima nuclear disaster? ... that the Vuurbaak van Katwijk aan Zee, built in 1605, is the second-oldest lighthouse in the Netherlands? ... that the BBC described Chi Chi DeVayne's lip sync to "And I Am Telling You I'm Not Going" as "iconic in Drag Race history"? 29 April 2021 12:00, 29 April 2021 (UTC) Drawing of the Saint-Bélec slab ... that the early Bronze Age Saint-Bélec slab (pictured) is the oldest map to be found in Europe? ... that Truus Smulders-Beliën, the first female mayor in the Netherlands, succeeded her husband after he was executed by Nazi soldiers? ... that Japan's 666 Protected Forests include four Forest Biosphere Reserves that are also Natural World Heritage Sites—Shiretoko, Shirakami-Sanchi, Ogasawara Islands, and Yakushima? ... that Karlin Lillington, long-time technology writer for Ireland's newspaper of record, The Irish Times, holds a PhD on the poetry of Seamus Heaney? ... that many tombstones from the Jewish cemetery of Thessaloniki were used by the city and the Greek Orthodox Church for construction projects? ... that Philadelphia Phillies catcher Rafael Marchan had never hit a home run through 850 minor league plate appearances before hitting one in just his second major league game? ... that the fish Carapus acus lives in association with a sea cucumber, such as Parastichopus regalis, spending the day inside its host and emerging at night to feed? ... that Sister has sparked discussion about gender roles in China? 00:00, 29 April 2021 (UTC) The Dream of Ossian ... that The Dream of Ossian (pictured) by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres was painted in 1813 for Napoleon's bedroom? ... that Yugoslav politician Miloš Trifunović was briefly professor of zoology and botany despite graduating from the Faculty of Philosophy of the Belgrade Higher School? ... that John Neal's article "The Pound of Flesh" resulted in a substantial donation? ... that British nurse Ethel Becher was described as a "modern Florence Nightingale" in 1919 for her services during World War I? ... that the history of Vyatka Land was said to be more obscure than that of any other Russian region? ... that when Irene del Río was called up to the Spain women's national football team squad, she was the only player who did not compete in the country's top division? ... that Jerome Robbins's ballet Other Dances was described as "utterly Slavic" by dancer Mikhail Baryshnikov, partly because it was made for him and fellow Russian Natalia Makarova? ... that when Hollyoaks changed Juliet Nightingale's appearance for a storyline involving drugs, actress Niamh Blackshaw was glad to get rid of her character's side ponytail? 28 April 2021 12:00, 28 April 2021 (UTC) Viola Brand performing a bicycle stunt ... that German three-time artistic cycling World Championship runner-up Viola Brand (pictured) was invited to The Ellen DeGeneres Show, having previously watched the show to improve her English? ... that the Urdu novel Zameen provides a woman-centric account of Pakistan's independence? ... that Julie Mennell was a police officer and a forensics specialist before she became vice chancellor of the University of Cumbria? ... that Brett Ormerod scored five goals for Blackpool in the 2001 Football League play-offs including one in the 2001 Football League Third Division play-off Final? ... that Wilson Tucker was elected to the Mining and Pastoral region of the Western Australian Legislative Council with just 0.18 per cent of the primary vote? ... that in "Herr, stärke mich, dein Leiden zu bedenken", Christian Fürchtegott Gellert reflected the theological and emotional impact of the Passion of Jesus, using a familiar Passion hymn tune? ... that tea room owner Edith Warner was convinced by Robert Oppenheimer to keep her restaurant open to serve the scientists working on the Manhattan Project, including Niels Bohr and Enrico Fermi? ... that the founder of the Australian Flying Arts School took flying lessons so that he could travel throughout the Queensland Outback providing art lessons to its inhabitants? 00:00, 28 April 2021 (UTC) Blickling Park mausoleum ... that John Hobart, 2nd Earl of Buckinghamshire, is entombed in a pyramid in Norfolk, England (pictured)? ... that in hakamat, a genre of the traditional music of Sudan, women exert their influence to resolve conflicts by singing songs of praise or ridicule? ... that Virgil Conn was a member of the Oregon Legislature during the 1897 session that failed to organize due to the lack of a quorum? ... that the inspiration for the 1998 novel The Vintner's Luck came to author Elizabeth Knox in a fever dream caused by pneumonia? ... that Sabina Matos, Lieutenant Governor of Rhode Island, did not speak English when she immigrated to the United States at age 20? ... that the year after going into administration, Huddersfield Town gained promotion to the Second Division by winning the 2004 Football League Third Division play-off Final? ... that the extinct bowfin Amia? hesperia was likely a fish-eating hunter? ... that Leontyne Price described her relationship with voice teacher Florence Kimball as "the most important relationship of my life. Like sex it was pure chemistry"? 27 April 2021 12:00, 27 April 2021 (UTC) Marcello Petacci ... that Marcello Petacci (pictured) was riddled with bullets after trying to escape execution by throwing himself into Lake Como? ... that choreographer George Balanchine did not tell  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2021/April responseCode 3 200 