teogtmrkberebgwgjkyofesqemdibicejsbslkso length 6 250646 page 10049 17th-century ship of American colonists For other ships, see List of ships named Mayflower. For other uses, see Mayflower (disambiguation). Mayflower at sea History England Name Mayflower Owner Christopher Jones ( 1⁄4 of the ship) Maiden voyage Before 1609 Out of service 1622–1624 Fate Most likely taken apart by Rotherhithe shipbreaker c. 1624. General characteristics Class and type Dutch cargo fluyt Tonnage 180 tons + Length c. 80–90 ft (24–27.5 m) on deck, 100–110 ft (30–33.5 m) overall. Decks Around 4 Capacity Unknown, but carried approximately 135 people to Plymouth Colony Mayflower was an English ship that transported a group of English families, known today as the Pilgrims, from England to the New World in 1620. After 10 weeks at sea, Mayflower, with 102 passengers and a crew of about 30, reached what is today the United States, dropping anchor near the tip of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, on November 21 [O.S. November 11], 1620. Differing from their contemporaries, the Puritans (who sought to reform and purify the Church of England), the Pilgrims chose to separate themselves from the Church of England, which forced them to pray in private. They believed it was beyond redemption due to its resistance to reform and Roman Catholic past. Starting in 1608, a group of English families left England for the Netherlands, where they could worship freely. By 1620, the community determined to cross the Atlantic for America, which they considered a "new Promised Land", where they would establish Plymouth Colony.[1]: 44  The Pilgrims had originally hoped to reach America by early October using two ships, but delays and complications meant they could use only one, Mayflower. Arriving in November, they had to survive unprepared through a harsh winter. As a result, only half of the original Pilgrims survived the first winter at Plymouth. If not for the help of local indigenous peoples to teach them food gathering and other survival skills, all of the colonists might have perished. The following year, those 53 who survived[2] celebrated the colony's first fall harvest along with 90 Wampanoag Native American people,[3] an occasion declared in centuries later the first American Thanksgiving.[4] Before disembarking the Mayflower, the Pilgrims wrote and signed the Mayflower Compact, an agreement that established a rudimentary government, in which each member would contribute to the safety and welfare of the planned settlement. As one of the earliest colonial vessels, the ship has become a cultural icon in the history of the United States.[5] Motivations for the voyage See also: Pilgrims (Plymouth Colony) § History A congregation of approximately 400 English Protestants living in exile in Leiden, Holland, were dissatisfied with the failure of the Church of England to reform what they felt were many excesses and abuses. But rather than work for change in England (as other Puritans did), they chose to live as Separatists in religiously tolerant Holland in 1608. As separatists, they were considered illegal radicals by their home country of England.[6] The government of Leiden was recognized for offering financial aid to reformed churches, whether English, French or German, which made it a sought-after destination for Protestant intellectuals.[1]: 17  Many of the separatists were illegal members of a church in Nottinghamshire, England, secretly practicing their Puritan form of Protestantism. When they learned that the authorities were aware of their congregation, church members fled in the night with little more than the clothes they were wearing, and clandestinely made it to Holland.[1]: 18  Painting by Isaac Claesz Van Swanenburg of workers in Leiden's wool industry Life in Holland became increasingly difficult for the congregation. They were forced into menial and backbreaking jobs, such as cleaning wool, which led to a variety of health afflictions. In addition, a number of the country's leading theologians began engaging in open debates which led to civil unrest, instilling the fear that Spain might again place Holland's population under siege, as it had done years earlier.[6] England's James I subsequently formed an alliance with Holland against Spain, with a condition outlawing independent English church congregations in Holland.[1]: 26  In aggregate, these became the separatists' motivating factors to sail for the New World, which would have the added benefit of being beyond the reach of King James and his bishops.[6] Their desire to travel to America was considered audacious and risky, as previous attempts to settle in North America had failed. Jamestown, founded in 1607, saw most of its settlers die within the first year. 440 of the 500 new arrivals died of starvation during the first six months of winter.[6] The Puritan separatists also learned of the constant threat of attacks by indigenous peoples.[6] But despite all the arguments against traveling to this new land, their conviction that God wanted them to go held sway: "We verily believe and trust the Lord is with us," they wrote, "and that he will graciously prosper our indeavours, according to the simplicity of our hearts therein."[6][7] Voyage See also: Pilgrims (Plymouth Colony) § Voyage Leaving Holland See also: Pilgrims (Plymouth Colony) § Decision to leave Holland After deciding to leave Holland, they planned to cross the Atlantic using two purchased ships. A small ship with the name Speedwell would first carry them from Leiden to England. The larger Mayflower would then be used to transport most of the passengers and supplies the rest of the way.[8] Pilgrims John Carver, William Bradford and Myles Standish at prayer during their voyage to North America. 1844 painting by Robert Walter Weir. Not all of the Separatists were able to depart, as many did not have enough time to settle their affairs and their budgets were too meager to buy the necessary travel supplies. The congregation therefore decided that the younger and stronger members should go first, with others possibly following in the future. Although the congregation had been led by John Robinson, who first proposed the idea of emigrating to America, he chose to remain in Leiden to care for those who could not make the voyage.[8] In explaining to his congregation why they should emigrate, Robinson used the analogy of the ancient Israelites leaving Babylon to escape bondage by returning to Jerusalem, where they would build their temple.[9] "The Pilgrims and Puritans actually referred to themselves as God's New Israel," writes Peter Marshall.[9] It was therefore considered the destiny of the Pilgrims and Puritans to similarly build a "spiritual Jerusalem" in America.[9][10]: 39  When it was time to leave, the ship's senior leader, Edward Winslow, described the scene of families being separated at the departure: "A flood of tears was poured out. Those not sailing accompanied us to the ship, but were not able to speak to one another for the abundance of sorrow before parting."[11] William Bradford, another leader who would be the second governor of the Plymouth Colony, similarly described the departure: Truly doleful was the sight of that sad and mournful parting. To see what sighs and sobs and prayers did sound among them; what tears did gush from every eye, and pithy speeches pierced each heart...their Reverend Pastor, falling down on his knees, and they all with him...[12]: 23  The trip to the south coast of England took three days, where the ship took anchor at Southampton on August 5 [O.S. July 26], 1620. From there, the Pilgrims first laid eyes on their larger ship, Mayflower, as it was being loaded with provisions.[8] Speedwell and Mayflower Mayflower II, a replica of the original Mayflower, docked at Plymouth, Massachusetts Carrying about 65 passengers, Mayflower left London in mid-July 1620.[13] The ship then proceeded down the Thames to the south coast of England, where it anchored at Southampton, Hampshire. There she waited for the planned rendezvous on July 22 with the Speedwell, coming from Holland with members of the Leiden congregation.[8] Although both ships planned to depart for America by the end of July, a leak was discovered on Speedwell, which had to be repaired.[14] The ships set sail for America around August 5, but Speedwell sprang another leak shortly after, which necessitated the ships' return to Dartmouth for repairs. They made a new start after the repairs, but more than 200 miles (320 km) beyond Land's End at the southwestern tip of England, Speedwell sprang a third leak. It was now early September, and they had no choice but to abandon Speedwell and make a determination on her passengers. This was a dire event, as vital funds had been wasted on the ship, which were considered very important to the future success of their settlement in America. Both ships returned to Plymouth, England, where 20 Speedwell passengers joined the now overcrowded Mayflower, while the others returned to Holland.[15] They waited for seven more days until the wind picked up. William Bradford was especially worried: "We lie here waiting for as fair a wind as can blow... Our victuals will be half eaten up, I think, before we go from the coast of England; and, if our voyage last long, we shall not have a month's victuals when we come in the country."[16]: 343  According to Bradford, Speedwell was refitted and seaworthy, having "made many voyages... to the great profit of her owners." He suggested that Speedwell's master may have used "cunning and deceit" to abort the voyage by causing the leaks, fearing starvation and death in America.[17]: 28  Mayflower sets sail Further information on acquisition of the ship and the planning of the voyage: Pilgrims (Plymouth Colony) At last the over-full and hitherto baffled Mayflower was ready for the third trial. This final voyage would be successful. On September 26, 1620, the gallant little craft slipped out to sea. In proportion to her cubic feet of space, no heavier ca contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 43 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Mayflower responseCode 3 200 