terooitivmmsposcpejiucwqiokekimqdivgzeqs length 6 256905 page 10004 Wikimedia project page "WP:TP" redirects here. For template guidelines, see Help:Template. This page is about how talk pages work. For talk page etiquette, see Wikipedia:Talk page guidelines. For guidelines about user talk pages, see Wikipedia:User pages. This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, and may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:TP WP:TPHELP WP:TALKPAGE H:TP New here? Welcome! There is a simplified version of this page at Help:Introduction to talk pages. Talk pages (also known as discussion pages) are administration pages where editors can discuss improvements to articles or other Wikipedia pages. The talk page associated with an article is named "Talk:Example", where "Example" is the name of the article. For example, the talk page for discussion of improvements to the article Australia is named Talk:Australia. The talk page associated with a page in another namespace is named by adding "talk" after the namespace label; for example, the talk page for Wikipedia:About is called Wikipedia talk:About. When viewing an article (or any other non-talk page) on the desktop Wikipedia, a link to the corresponding talk page appears on the "Talk" tab at the top of the page. Click this tab to switch to the talk page. On the mobile Wikipedia, type "Talk:" and the article's name in the search bar. (There are plans to provide easier talk access on mobile.) User pages also have associated talk pages (for example, User talk:Jimbo Wales for Jimbo Wales' userpage.). When other editors need to contact you, they will usually do this by leaving a message on your talk page. When someone has left you a message that way, you will either see an orange information notice the next time you log in or view a page on Wikipedia if you are editing as an IP address, or a red badge next to your username if you are logged in. Video introduction Video on how to use a talk page, 2m 30s (8 MB) This introductory video covers: What are talk pages How to post a new message Indentation Keys to a good discussion Watchlist 0:14 0:59 1:25 1:48 2:12 Where to find talk pages Location of the talk page tab on the desktop site (on the page Encyclopedia) Location of the talk page tab on the mobile website Location of the article talk page in Wikipedia mobile (Android) app normally appears in more options or at the bottom of the article labelled "View talk page" (here, on the page Giraffe) When viewing an article (or any other non-talk page), a link to the corresponding talk page appears on the "Talk" tab at the top of the page. (On mobile apps the link may be in a different location) Click this tab to switch to the talk page; you can then view the talk page and its history, and edit it if you want to add a question or comment. If the "Talk" link is red, it means no talk page has been started yet. Click the red link to begin a talk page for that article and follow the instructions in Starting a new thread below. (It is also possible for a talk page to exist while the corresponding non-talk page is a red link; this often occurs in User space, when a user has received talk page messages but has not started a user page yet.) To go back to the article page from its talk page, use the leftmost tab at the top of the page, labeled "article". For pages other than articles, this tab may say something different, like "user page" or "project page". Identifying yourself Generally, your comments will be automatically signed with your IP address (a number representing your internet connection)username and a link to your user talk page, along with the time you saved the page. The exception to this is when you are editing directly in source text mode, not using the reply tool or new topic tool. In that case, you should always sign and date your comment so other editors can follow the thread of the conversation. To do this easily, type four tildes (~~~~) at the end of your comment, or just click the signature button on the row of buttons above the edit box. Once you publish the edit, this will be automatically converted into a user signature with a link to your user page, your user talk page, and the date and time that you save your edit. (You can change the form of your signature using your user preferences.) Code Result ~~~~ Username (talk) 00:02, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] If you choose to contribute without logging in, regardless of whether you have an account, you should still sign your posts. In this case your IP address will take the place of your username, and will link to your contributions history. Further information: Wikipedia:Signatures Starting a new thread Shortcut WP:TPNEW The "new section" tab on article talk pages (here, The weather in London) lets you start a new section. To discuss a topic that's not already covered on the article or user talk page, start a new topic. Click on the "New section" link at the top of the talk page screen. Be sure to enter a section header in the "Subject/headline" box with a suitable title, preferably not something generic like "Question" or "Problem". Sign. At the end of your post, type four tildes (~~~~), which will automatically add your user name and the date. Click "Publish changes" A new section can also be started by editing the whole page or an existing section, going to a new line and typing == Heading ==, replacing "Heading" with a suitable title, but make sure to add new discussions at the bottom of the page. A new section automatically adds the heading to the "Contents" box on pages with at least four sections. Replying to an existing thread "WP:THREAD" redirects here. You might be looking for Wikipedia:Avoid thread mode or Wikipedia:Thread-mode disclaimer. Shortcuts WP:THREAD WP:TALKREPLY To respond to a discussion already in progress: Click the "Edit" link on the right end of the bar of the section you want to reply to. Add your comment below the last entry in the discussion. If you want to respond to a specific comment, you can place your response directly below it. Use a colon (:) to indent your message to create a threaded message. See Indentation below for more information on indenting talk pages with colons. Sign. Type four tildes (~~~~), which will automatically add your username and the date. Click "Publish changes" Indentation See also: Wikipedia:Indentation and Help:List Indentation is used to keep talk pages readable. Comments are indented using one or more initial colons (:), each colon representing one level of indentation. Each comment should be indented one more level than the comment it replies to, which may or may not be the preceding comment. For example: Code Result == Header ==

The first comment in a section has no colons before it. ~~~~

:The reply to the first comment is indented one level. ~~~~
::The reply to the second comment should be indented one more level. ~~~~
::Another reply to the second comment is also indented one more level than the comment being replied to. ~~~~
:A subsequent reply to the first comment is indented one level. ~~~~
 Header The first comment in a section has no colons before it. Editor 1 (talk) 10:44, 21 September 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply] The reply to the first comment is indented one level. Editor 2 (talk) 16:40, 21 September 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply] The reply to the second comment should be indented one more level. Editor 1 (talk) 16:57, 23 September 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply] Another reply to the second comment is also indented one more level than the comment being replied to. Editor 4 (talk) 08:27, 25 September 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply] A subsequent reply to the first comment is indented one level. Editor 3 (talk) 03:15, 24 September 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply] Some pages (deletion discussions, for example) use asterisks (*) rather than colons for indentation. Generally, colons and asterisks should not be mixed; if you see asterisks are being used in a page, use them as well. Complex discussions may mix them (and numbered lists, too); in such a case, avoid mangled list formatting with this simple rule of thumb: Use the same indentation and list formatting as what you are replying to, plus one level at the end of the indent/list code. E.g., if you are replying to something in a complicated discussion that starts with #:::*, just copy-paste that and add a :, resulting in #:::*: in front of your reply (or use #:::** if you feel it is necessary for your reply to begin with a bullet point). Avoid placing double line breaks between indented lines of text, since this can create problems for users of screen reader software (see Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Accessibility ยง Indentation). If you practice these techniques, be sure to practice on a talk page, such as User talk:your user name/sandbox. The Cascading Style Sheets for talk pages are different from articles, and the visual appearance of list-formatted text can be different. Also, : should not be used for visual indentation in articles, as it is actually markup specifically for description lists. (See Wikipedia:Manual of Style ยง Indentation for how to indent single lines and blocks of text in articles; for block-quoting, see Wikipedia:Manual of Style ยง Block quotations.) Additionally, to ensure clarity in a rapidly-moving or otherwise complex discussion, it is possible to use {{reply to}} to make clear to whom the comment is addressed. This also has the added feature of leaving the other editor a notification that you have replied to them. Reply tool Main page: Wikipedia:Talk pages project ยง Reply tool Since March 2022 on desktop, and March 2023 on mobile, a [reply] link now appears at the end of every signed comment to facilitate posting quick responses to an existing discussion. Any logged-in user can opt out by going to Preferences and deselecting "Enable quick replying" under Discussion pages. Getting started Screenshot of the visual mode At the end of ea contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Talk_pages responseCode 3 200 