tiucziiqugjkucdqbonskmqogemcyidkxebaeemi length 6 465812 page 10030 Ethnic group native to Scotland This article is about the Scottish people as an ethnic group. For residents or nationals of Scotland, see Demography of Scotland. "Scotsman" redirects here. For other uses, see Scotsman (disambiguation). "Scot" redirects here. For people and other things named Scott or Scot, see Scott. For other uses, see Scot (disambiguation). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Scottish people" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2023) (template removal help) Scottish people Total population c. 28 – c. 40 million[1] Regions with significant populations Scotland 4,446,000 (2011) identifying as Scottish descent only[2] Significant Scottish diaspora in United States 8,422,613 (Scottish)A 794,478 (Scots-Irish)[3][4] Canada 4,799,005[5] (2016)B Australia 2,176,777[6] (2021)C New Zealand 1,000,000-2,000,000 (Scottish descent) 25,953 Scottish-born[7][8] England 795,000[9] South Africa 11,160 (estimate)[9]: 10  Isle of Man 2,403[10] Hong Kong 1,459[11][12]E Languages English Scots Scottish Gaelic British Sign Language Religion Presbyterianism Catholicism Episcopalianism Irreligion other minority groups Data based on official census data of populations. A Scottish Americans and Scotch-Irish Americans B Scottish Canadians C Scottish Australians D Scottish-born people in England only E Number of people born in Scotland. Part of a series on the Culture of Scotland History Timeline Prehistoric Roman times Middle Ages Early Middle Ages Kingdom High Middle Ages Davidian Revolution Wars of Independence Late Middle Ages Renaissance Early modern Reformation Colonisation of the Americas Glorious Revolution 1707 Acts of Union Jacobitism Enlightenment Lowland Clearances Highland Clearances Industrial Revolution Romanticism Modern People Languages Scottish Gaelic Broad Scots Scottish English Pictish Norn Traditions Clothing Hackle Burning of the Clavie Burns supper Common Riding Crofting Saining Scots law Scottish clan Skalk Up Helly Aa Units of measurement Mythology and Folklore Cuisine Festivals St. Andrew's Day Hogmanay Burns supper Tartan Day Lanimer Day Imbolc Bealltainn/May Day Lùnastal Samhainn Religion Art Literature Music and Performing arts Folk music Scottish highland dance Scottish country dance Scottish sword dances Mod Keening Waulking song Opera Puirt à beul Border Ballad Media Radio Television Cinema Sport Golf Curling Football Haggis hurling Hailes Highland games Horse racing Rugby sevens Rugby union Shinty Shot put Monuments World Heritage Sites Symbols Flag Coat of arms National anthem Lion Rampant Thistle Tartan Celtic cross Celtic knot Scottish inventions and discoveries Scotland portal v t e St. Kildans sitting on the village street Victorian-era Property of the National Trust for Scotland taken in 1886. Part of a series on the Culture of the United Kingdom History Georgian period Napoleonic Wars Regency period Victorian period British Empire Edwardian period First World War Interwar period Second World War Post-war period (social history) Brexit People Historic peoples Celtic Germanic British English Scottish Welsh Northern Irish Cornish Irish Manx Modern ethnicities British identity White British Asian British Black British British Jews British Arabs British Mixed Gypsy or Irish Traveller Languages English England Scotland Wales Ireland Scots Ulster Scots Scottish Gaelic Welsh Cornish Angloromani British Sign Language Mythology and Folklore England Scotland Wales Ireland & Northern Ireland Cuisine English Scottish Welsh Cornish Northern Irish Anglo-Indian and South Asian Festivals New Year's Day Hogmanay Good Friday Easter Monday May Day Victoria Day Spring Bank Holiday The Twelfth Late Summer Bank Holiday Samhain Christmas Day Boxing Day St. George's Day St. Andrew's Day St. David's Day St. Patrick's Day VE Day Religion Christianity No religion Islam Hinduism Judaism Buddhism Modern Paganism Art English art Scottish art Welsh art Irish art Literature English Scottish Northern Irish Welsh-language Other languages Music Media Radio Television Cinema Sport Football in England Football in Scotland Football in Wales Football in Northern Ireland Cricket in England Cricket in Ireland Cricket in Scotland Cricket in Wales Rugby union Rugby league Ice hockey Gaelic games Monuments World Heritage Sites Buckingham Palace Palace of Westminster Angel of the North Stonehenge Symbols Flag Coat of arms National anthem Monarchy Britannia Dieu et mon droit In Defens "God Save the King" Thistle Tudor rose United Kingdom portal v t e The Scottish people or Scots (Scots: Scots fowk; Scottish Gaelic: Albannaich) are an ethnic group and nation native to Scotland. Historically, they emerged in the early Middle Ages from an amalgamation of two Celtic peoples, the Picts and Gaels, who founded the Kingdom of Scotland (or Alba) in the 9th century. In the following two centuries, Celtic-speaking Cumbrians of Strathclyde and Germanic-speaking Angles of Northumbria became part of Scotland. In the High Middle Ages, during the 12th-century Davidian Revolution, small numbers of Norman nobles migrated to the Lowlands. In the 13th century, the Norse-Gaels of the Western Isles became part of Scotland, followed by the Norse of the Northern Isles in the 15th century. In modern usage, "Scottish people" or "Scots" refers to anyone whose linguistic, cultural, family ancestral or genetic origins are from Scotland. The Latin word Scoti[13] originally referred to the Gaels, but came to describe all inhabitants of Scotland.[14] Considered pejorative by some,[15] the term Scotch has also been used for Scottish people, now primarily outwith Scotland. People of Scottish descent live in many countries. Emigration, influenced by factors such as the Highland and Lowland Clearances, Scottish emigration to various locales throughout the British Empire, and latterly industrial decline and unemployment, have resulted in the spread of Scottish languages and culture. Large populations of Scottish people settled the 'New World' lands of North and South America, Australia and New Zealand. The highest concentrations of people of Scottish descent in the world outside of Scotland are in Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island in Canada, Otago and Murihiku/Southland in New Zealand, the Falkland Islands, and Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom. Canada has the highest level of Scottish descendants per capita in the world and the second-largest population of Scottish descendants, after the United States.[16] Etymology[edit] See also: Scotia Originally the Romans used Scotia to refer to Ireland.[17][18][19] The Venerable Bede (c. 672 or 673 – 27 May, 735) uses the word Scottorum for the nation from Ireland who settled part of the Pictish lands: "Scottorum nationem in Pictorum parte recipit." This can be inferred to mean the arrival of the people, also known as the Gaels, in the Kingdom of Dál Riata, in the western edge of Scotland. Bede used the word natio (nation) for the Scots, where he often refers to other peoples, such as the Picts, with the word gens (race).[20] In the 10th-century Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, the word Scot is mentioned as a reference to the "Land of the Gaels". The word Scottorum was again used by an Irish king in 1005: Imperator Scottorum was the title given to Brian Bóruma by his notary, Mael Suthain, in the Book of Armagh.[21] This style was subsequently copied by the Scottish kings. Basileus Scottorum appears on the great seal of King Edgar (1074–1107).[22] Alexander I (c. 1078–1124) used the words Rex Scottorum on his great seal, as did many of his successors up to and including James VI.[23] In modern times the words Scot and Scottish are applied mainly to inhabitants of Scotland. The possible ancient Irish connotations are largely forgotten. The language known as Ulster Scots, spoken in parts of northeastern Ireland, is the result of 17th- and 18th-century immigration to Ireland from Scotland. In the English language, the word Scotch is a term to describe a thing from Scotland, such as Scotch whisky. However, when referring to people, the preferred term is Scots. Many Scottish people find the term Scotch to be offensive when applied to people.[24] The Oxford Dictionary describes Scotch as an old-fashioned term for "Scottish".[25] Scottish ethnic and cultural groups[edit] History of ethnogeneses[edit] Further information: Genetic history of the British Isles, Prehistoric Scotland, and Scandinavian Scotland In the Early Middle Ages, Scotland saw several ethnic or cultural groups mentioned in contemporary sources, namely the Picts, the Gaels, the Britons, and the Angles, with the last of these settling in the southeast of the country. Culturally, these peoples are grouped according to language. Most of Scotland until the 13th century spoke Celtic languages, and these included, at least initially, the Britons, as well as the Gaels and the Picts.[26] Germanic peoples included the Angles of Northumbria, who settled in south-eastern Scotland in the region between the Firth of Forth to the north and the River Tweed to the south. They also occupied the southwest of Scotland up to and including the Plain of Kyle. Their language, Old English, was the earliest form of the language which eventually became known as Scots. The Covenanters were members of a 17th-century Scottish religious and political movement Use of the Gaelic language spread throughout nearly the whole of Scotland by the 9th century,[27] reaching a peak in the 11th to 13th centuries, but was never the language of the south-east of the country.[27] King Edgar divided the Kingdom of Northumbria between Scotland and England; at least, most medieval historians now accept the 'gift' by Edgar. In any case, after the later Battle of Carham the Scottish kingdom encompassed many English people, with even more qui contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Scottish_people responseCode 3 200 