toyokefsxauiboyodqjehqlsbakafskkqshqnkxi length 6 114932 page 9642 Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:WWW WP:WRITES WP:WRITERS This page in a nutshell: Everyone – including you – can make improvements to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A short video about that "Edit" button and what it can do when you are bold! (1:06 min) You do. Yes, anyone can be bold and edit an existing article or create a new one, and volunteers do not need to have any formal training. The people who create and edit articles on Wikipedia come from many countries, with individuals who all bring something different with them, but most importantly a willingness to help in building a free encyclopedia of reliable information. Any contributor to this encyclopedia, unregistered and registered alike, is called a "Wikipedian", or, more formally, an "editor" of the encyclopedia. Almost all Wikipedians are volunteers. Other categories of Wikipedians have emerged as well. Who contributes to Wikipedia? Gender 84 / 100 The 2013 study The Wikipedia Gender Gap Revisited measured gender bias in survey completion and estimated that as of 2008, 84% of English Wikipedia editors were male. In the worldwide Wikipedia Editor Survey 2011 of all the Wikipedians, 91% of respondents were male. Nationality The greatest number, or plurality, of editors (20%) reside in the United States, followed by Germany (12%) and Russia (7%). The only country not in Europe or North America in the top 10 is India (3%). Age distribution 13 / 100 13% of editors are 17 or under. 14 / 100 14% are in the group 18–21. 26 / 100 26% are 22–29. 19 / 100 19% are 30–39. 28 / 100 28% of editors are aged 40+. 59 / 100 59% of the editors are aged 17 to 40. Further information: Wikipedia community and Wikipedia:Wikipedians The English Wikipedia currently has 46,509,943 users who have registered a username. Only a minority of users contribute regularly (122,469 have edited in the last 30 days), and only a minority of those contributors participate in community discussions. An unknown but relatively large number of unregistered Wikipedians also contribute to the site. The type of people who were drawn to writing an encyclopedia for fun tend to be pretty smart people. — Jimmy Wales · Founder of Wikipedia, July 2005 – TEDGlobal conference Contributions come from diverse demographic and ethnographic segments: Mid-20s males and retired males are the largest demographics. See Gender database reports. 10–20% women of various ages, significant underrepresentation acknowledged by Gender bias on Wikipedia and Gender gap Students (e.g., in the context of a course) Enthusiasts (e.g., people with interest in a particular subject, like butterflies) Insiders (e.g., people who work for an organization, such as the Sierra Club) Dabblers (e.g., people who see some problem with an article and want to help) Scholars (e.g., researchers who want to use Wikipedia as an additional dissemination platform) Archivists (e.g., people who work or volunteer at a museum, archive, or library wanting to contribute artifacts, like 18th-century paintings) Marketers (e.g., individuals, staff, members, or a PR firm seeking to promote a product, service, or brand) Evil-doers (e.g., spammers, vandals) Many people in the Wikipedia community are conscious that the demographics of editors has systemic bias in the content of the site and there are efforts being done to remedy these biases. How do editors contribute to Wikipedia? Main page: Wikipedia:Contributing to Wikipedia The content of any particular article is subject to editorial discretion developed via consensus. Wikipedia is not paper, which means we can write almost an unlimited amount on any topic. Still, there are limits on what we ought to include, and especially how we ought to write it. When an article is incomplete or inaccurate, you can edit the article to be more accurate and/or useful. Someone may place a notice at the top of the article indicating that it needs to be cleaned up. It is also possible to create a new article to share information that is not yet in Wikipedia. The way to decide whether a particular statement is accurate is to find independent reliable sources to affirm that statement, such as books, magazine articles, television news stories, trade journals, or other websites. For more guidance on evaluating the accuracy of Wikipedia articles, see researching with Wikipedia. It is Wikipedia's policy to add to the encyclopedia only statements that are verifiable and not original research. The Wikipedia style guide encourages editors to cite sources. Detailed citations allow readers of the article to easily verify the content in question. When a large group of people work to compile information on a given topic, disputes may arise. A useful feature of Wikipedia is the ability to tag an article, or a section of the article, as subject of a dispute about a neutral point of view. This feature is especially popular for controversial topics, topics subject to changing current events or other topics where divergent opinions exist. To resolve the dispute, the interested editors will share their points of view on the article's talk page. They will attempt to reach consensus so that all valid perspectives can be fairly represented. This allows Wikipedia to be a place not only of information, but of collaboration. Many users of Wikipedia consult the page history of an article in order to assess the number, and the perspective, of people who contributed to the article. You may also consult the talk page of any article to see what other readers and editors have to say about it. Wikipedia's best articles are highlighted in the list of featured articles. These articles were granted "featured" status because they were judged to be of high quality by other editors and users. (If later edits reduce the quality of a featured article, a user can nominate an article for removal from the list.) See also Further information: Wikipedia:Essay directory § About editors Administration – discusses how Wikipedia requires a certain amount of administration in order to further the project's goals. Core content policies – a brief summary and background on Wikipedia's core content policies. Editor integrity – discusses how editors have a responsibility to uphold the integrity of Wikipedia and respect intellectual property rights of the sources they draw upon when they create and improve encyclopedia pages. Five pillars – describes the fundamental principles of Wikipedia summarized in five "pillars". Purpose – describes Wikipedia's motive for being by its founders. The essence of Wikipedia – describes how Wikipedia is the harnessing of the collective intelligence and collaborative efforts of editors who hold opposing points of view, in an attempt to preserve all serious contributions which are reliably sourced. Wikipedia is a volunteer service – discusses how editors on Wikipedia are mainly volunteers. Editors can contribute as much as they want, and however long as they desire. v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 67 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Who_writes_Wikipedia%3F responseCode 3 200 