tqqakadkcodabewofsvenofokqkqemhexgycyoam page 10009 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 31 December 2019 12:00, 31 December 2019 (UTC) Mekong Bobtail ... that Mekong Bobtails (example pictured) were among 200 royal cats given to Nicholas II of Russia by King Chulalongkorn of Siam in the 19th century? ... that John Moutoussamy is the only African-American to have designed a high-rise building—which featured "colorful walls and psychedelic carpets"—in the Chicago Loop? ... that the first owners of radio station KSTO fled Guam after running up a debt of $60,000 in less than seven months of operation? ... that the Indian Air Force has launched two mobile air combat games, Guardians of the Skies and A Cut Above, to reach out to youth? ... that the 1988 opening of New York City's Archer Avenue lines, expected to lessen congestion, ended up slashing ridership at Parsons Boulevard station by half? ... that Miley Cyrus gained over 2.3 million likes on the video-sharing platform TikTok when she danced and lip-synced with Cody Simpson to "Stupid" by Ashnikko? ... that the Fatimid Caliphate prepared their conquest of Egypt in 969 through a long and patient propaganda effort, resulting in it being swift and almost unopposed? ... that computer scientist Odest Chadwicke Jenkins taught a robot to do the Cabbage Patch by demonstrating the dance? 00:00, 31 December 2019 (UTC) Hellvi helmet eyebrow ... that the Hellvi helmet eyebrow (pictured), made of iron, bronze, and silver, is one of several Vendel Period helmets for which only eyebrows remain? ... that due to Spanish singer Melody's three-year disappearance from the public eye, she was rumoured to be dead? ... that the director of a 2018 documentary uncovered evidence of FBI surveillance of Arab-American families in her hometown outside Chicago? ... that TMNT Shellraiser, the world's steepest roller coaster, beat the previous record holder by half a degree? ... that German SS commander and convicted war criminal Kurt Meyer falsely claimed that the Oradour-sur-Glane massacre was the only war crime that SS troops ever committed? ... that the Field Music album Plumb was nominated for the 2012 Mercury Prize, even though the band thought that their odds were "minimal to nil"? ... that Lu Youquan's book on Piaget's theory of cognitive development won a national education award in China? ... that pygmy Ota Benga was moved to the Howard Colored Orphan Asylum after people objected to him being shown in the Bronx Zoo? 30 December 2019 12:00, 30 December 2019 (UTC) Idham Azis ... that Idham Azis (pictured), the chief of the Indonesian National Police, succeeded in enrolling at the national police academy on his third attempt? ... that Lynn Family Stadium shares its namesake with another stadium in the same city? ... that Marco Streng's Genesis Group has a bitcoin mine in Iceland? ... that HMS Melpomene missed the Battle of Trafalgar, but arrived in time to tow away damaged enemy vessels? ... that medical scholar Ronald Grossarth-Maticek directed a long-term study involving 30,000 people from 18,000 households, spanning more than 20 years? ... that the songs on the Kabir Singh soundtrack album, including "Tujhe Kitna Chahne Lage" ('I have begun to really love you'), have been described as "saccharine rock"? ... that Mexican drug lord María Antonieta Rodríguez Mata controlled a drug trafficking ring that extended across Colombia, Guatemala, Mexico, and the U.S.? ... that in baseball, it is not against the rules to steal signs? 00:00, 30 December 2019 (UTC) Diners at Yume Wo Katare share their dreams. ... that Yume Wo Katare (pictured), a ramen bar in Cambridge, Massachusetts, encourages diners to share their dreams and aspirations with each other after finishing their meals? ... that actor Ryan Reynolds has lent his voice to a garden snail, a caveman, and Pikachu? ... that the sale of WWIZ radio in Lorain, Ohio, undertaken in order to raise capital to build WXTV in Youngstown, prompted both stations to lose their licenses? ... that Polish courtier and writer Krzysztof Warszewicki was a respected orator who spoke at the funerals of Catherine, queen consort of Poland, and Maximilian II, Holy Roman Emperor? ... that the Concert Hall inside the BBC's Broadcasting House was pressed into service as a dormitory at the outbreak of World War II? ... that Sally Milgrim designed the dress that Eleanor Roosevelt wore to her husband's first inaugural ball? ... that after laying its eggs on a leaf, the female mango leaf-cutting weevil severs the leaf near its base and lets it fall to the ground? ... that the Jewish a cappella group Six13 sings traditional Hanukkah songs and prayers to music from Star Wars? 29 December 2019 12:00, 29 December 2019 (UTC) Meteorite in a blue-ice area in the Miller Range ... that blue-ice areas are places in Antarctica where snow evaporation and wind have exposed blue-colored ice, which often accumulates meteorites (example pictured)? ... that before entering journalism, G. Gould Lincoln was part of Thomas Edison's team that looked for nickel in Canada? ... that Michler's Palace, a townhouse destroyed in the Warsaw Uprising, is remembered for a wartime song named after it? ... that Culley C. Carson III's research has included treatments for Peyronie's disease, in which the penis curves when erect? ... that China's largest landfill closed in November 2019, having reached capacity 25 years early? ... that baritone Heiko Trinsinger of the Aalto Theatre appeared as Alberich in Der Ring in Minden, in which reviewers noted expressivity in every moment and a thunderous curse of the ring? ... that the Battle of Marshall's Elm has been described as the "first real confrontation" of the First English Civil War? ... that to maintain personal privacy, manga artist Paru Itagaki wears a large chicken mask that obscures her face for all public appearances? 00:00, 29 December 2019 (UTC) A parachute training tower ... that the British Empire's first parachute training tower (example pictured) was built by the Polish military? ... that Kiuchi Kyō, believed to be the first Japanese woman to be a school principal, worked to improve the status of women teachers? ... that on May 9, 1970, Richard Nixon spent the two hours before dawn at the Lincoln Memorial talking to students protesting the Vietnam War? ... that Jay Shah oversaw the Gujarat Cricket Association's project of constructing the world's largest cricket stadium? ... that British actress Naomi Watts' roles include CIA officer Valerie Plame, journalist Gretchen Carlson, and Princess Diana? ... that during the 2004 US presidential election, Hans Riemer ran an online campaign against the military draft, leading then-President Bush to coin the phrase "on the Internets"? ... that according to academic Yo Tomita, the Bach Digital portal website has largely replaced printed reference works as first point of entry for Bach scholarship? ... that as a child, American Civil War historian Charles P. Roland heard first-hand accounts of the war from veterans who served in it? 28 December 2019 12:00, 28 December 2019 (UTC) A Still Life with Two Objects ... that Vytautas Tomaševičius is the first Lithuanian to win an Excellence Award at the Tokyo Art Olympia Biennale, for his painting A Still Life with Two Objects (shown)? ... that the Grandview Heights Aquatic Centre has the world's longest spanning timber catenary arched roof? ... that Shetlander Johnnie Notions, a physician with no formal medical background, developed a smallpox inoculation that successfully immunised thousands of people before Jenner's vaccine w contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 74 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2019/December responseCode 3 200 