tsjkgafojqietatgjqmckmneyqcmccoaccosjowc length 6 182327 page 10012 For a less beginner-friendly but more comprehensive list of tasks on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Maintenance. Welcome to the Wikipedia Task Center! What do Wikipedians do? If you are looking for a way to help, find a task that suits you, read the appropriate background pages, and be bold. And if you are here for the fuzzy feeling, stand back and marvel at the range of work that is done daily by other Wikipedians. Shortcuts WP:JOBS WP:TASKS Maintenance Fact-Checking Suitable for all editors Help to verify articles' information, add sources, and fix links. Sometimes, editors add information without adding sources to back it up. And sometimes sources get old and links no longer work (known as "linkrot"). Your job will be to add sources, verify content, and repair linkrot. More Information WP:Link rot WP:Identifying reliable sources WP:Citing sources WP:Verifiability Do It! Fix unsourced statements with Citation Hunt Go to a random page in Category:All articles lacking sources Go to a random page in Category:All articles that may contain original research Go to a random page in Category:Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from November 2023 Go to a random page in Category:All articles with bare URLs for citations Categorization Suitable for all editors Help put pages into their proper categories. Pages need to be put into categories so that the public can more easily find them. Help search the new pages feed and the Uncategorized Pages category in order to find pages to categorize. Add categories to articles with too few categories. More Information WP:Categorization Do It! Go to a random page in Category:All uncategorized pages Special:Newpages Go to a random page in Category:Articles needing additional categories from November 2023 Copy editing Suitable for all editors Help keep Wikipedia articles clear, clean, and easy to read. Articles created in a rush often have various grammar or tone issues. Please help fix them to make the article decent for the public. Note: this task does require a very high level of English writing skill, and is not a recommended task for editors with less than professional proficiency. Editors interested in this task should also familiarise themselves with Wikipedia's Manual of Style. More Information WP:Neutral point of view WP:Basic copyediting How to copy edit Do It! Go to a random page in Category:All articles needing copy edit The Guild of Copy Editors Go to a random page in Category:All pages needing cleanup Go to a random page in Category:Wikipedia introduction cleanup from November 2023 WikiProject Cleanup Go to a random page in Category:All articles with too few wikilinks Collective spell check Go to a random page in Category:All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Popular low quality articles (top 1000 by pageviews with low ORES article quality predictions) Random Article Patrol Suitable for all editors See Wikipedia as it really is, and learn a lot of random information. Random article patrol is a chance to appreciate how good (and how lacking) Wikipedia is. It can be a soothing experience, especially after tedious maintenance tasks. As a bonus, it can be a great training tool to sharpen your knowledge if you're a trivia buff or are scheduled to appear on Jeopardy! Just go to random pages and fix what you can. More Information WP:Random WP:Random page patrol Do It! Special:Random Answer an Edit Request Suitable for intermediate editors Help someone else contribute to the encyclopedia. Sometimes, users cannot edit a page because it is protected, or they should not because they have a conflict of interest with its subject. Review their edit requests, implementing the good ones and rejecting the less-than-good ones. More Information Responding to protected edit requests Responding to COI edit requests Do It! Go to a random page with a semi-protected edit request Go to a random page with a COI edit request Anti-Vandalism Suitable for intermediate editors Stop vandals from damaging Wikipedia. Wikipedia gets thousands of edits per day—unfortunately, many of these are vandalism. As a Recent Changes Patroller, you are the first line of defense against such abuse, ensuring that readers of Wikipedia are not faced with vandalized content where they expected to find a useful article. More Information WP:Vandalism WP:Recent changes patrol WP:Counter-Vandalism Academy Do It! WikiLoop DoubleCheck WP:Counter-Vandalism Unit General Image Maintenance Suitable for intermediate editors Help fix issues with images. Uploading images on Wikipedia is a lengthy process and many mistakes are made. Therefore, there are a lot of mistakes that need to be fixed. More Information WP:Images Do It! Go to a random page in Category:Wikipedia requested images Go to a random page in Category:All Wikipedia files with unknown source Merging and Splitting Suitable for intermediate editors Sometimes articles need to be combined or separated by hand. Help merge articles by adding a redirect and copying and pasting or help split an article by removing content and pasting it into a new article. When merging, follow attribution rules to ensure copyright compliance. More Information WP:Merging WP:Splitting Do It! Go to a random page in Category:All articles to be merged Go to a random page in Category:All articles to be split New Images Patrol Suitable for intermediate editors Prevent the illegal release of images. Search the new images feed to find pictures that violate rules and copyright laws and get them deleted. More Information WP:New pages patrol/Image namespace checklist WP:File copyright tags WP:Images Do It! Special:Newimages New Pages Patrol Suitable for advanced editors Help delete spam articles before the public sees them. Some people, either acting in good faith or maliciously, create new articles which aren't suitable for inclusion on Wikipedia. By participating in new article patrol you can ensure that these articles are deleted as soon as possible. More Information WP:New pages patrol WP:Criteria for speedy deletion WP:Notability Do It! Special:Newpages WP:Proposed deletion WP:Twinkle Writing Expand a Short Article Suitable for intermediate editors Help fill the gaps of Wikipedia article content. Help make small articles called stubs more complete by doing more research. More Information WP:Stub WP:Manual of Style/Lead section Do It! Go to a random page in Category:All stub articles Go to a random page in Category:All articles to be expanded Go to a random page in Category:Pages missing lead section Go to a random page in Category:All Wikipedia articles needing context WP:Articles for improvement Popular low-quality articles Translate an Article Suitable for multilingual intermediate editors Help improve Wikipedia's global coverage. Article contributions are made in many languages besides English. Helpers are needed to translate and polish translations so that all languages have good coverage of notable topics. More Information WP:Translation WP:Translate us Wikipedia:Content translation tool Do It! WP:Pages needing translation into English Category:Articles needing translation from foreign-language Wikipedias Go to a random page in Category:Wikipedia articles needing cleanup after translation Expand a Broad-topic Article Suitable for advanced editors Help fill the gaps of important Wikipedia articles. Improve our coverage on broad-topic articles. It could be as simple as copyediting or adding sources. More Information WP:Broad-concept article WP:Vital articles Level 1 – 10 articles Level 2 – 100 articles Level 3 – 1000 articles Level 4 – 10,000 articles Level 5 – 50,000 articles Do It! (Higher level denotes decreasing broadness) Go to a random level-1 vital article Go to a random level-2 vital article Go to a random level-3 vital article Go to a random level-4 vital article Go to a random level-5 vital article Create an Article Suitable for advanced editors Help expand the reach of the encyclopedia. Create an article on a subject previously unknown to Wikipedia. More Information Help:Your first article Do It! WP:Most-wanted articles WP:Requested articles WP:Article wizard Good Articles Suitable for advanced editors Help edit and nominate articles or review nominations of articles for good article status. Find potentially good articles and work on them for a while to bring them up to a high standard. Then nominate them for Good Article status. You can also review good article nominations and critique them. More Information Help:Editing Wikipedia:Good article criteria Wikipedia:Reviewing good articles Do It! WP:Good articles Featured Articles Suitable for ambitious and advanced editors Help nominate or review nominations of articles for featured article status. Upgrade articles and work on them for a long time to bring them up to a very high standard, until they deserve to be featured on the main page. Then, get peer review and nominate them for Featured Article status. You can also critique feature article nominations. Obtaining featured article status is considered to be one of the most prized achievements in Wikipedia. More Information Help:Editing Wikipedia:Featured article criteria Wikipedia:Manual of Style Do It! WP:Featured articles Community Contribute to Noticeboards Suitable for intermediate editors Help contribute to discussions on noticeboards. Contribute your opinions to noticeboards in order to have a say in important decisions and help come to consensus on certain issues. More Information WP:Noticeboards Wikipedia:Consensus Do It! WP:Dashboard Help Someone Suitable for intermediate editors Answer questions on noticeboards. Help a user needing help. You don't have to know everything and you can just answer the questions you know. There is a need for more helpers to help speed up response times. More Information WP:Help desk/How to answer Wikipedia:Help desk/Templates Wikipedia:Reference desk/Guidelines Do It! WP:Teahouse WP:Help desk WP:Reference desk Go to a random page in Ca contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Task_Center responseCode 3 200 