tsveugrcwkiodogadexmsgoowqceqkdaielikkpa length 6 469247 page 10041 Index of templates used by Wikipedia "WP:TM" redirects here. For other uses, see WP:TM (disambiguation). "WP:TEMP" redirects here. For temporary subpages, see WP:Subpages. For the policy that explains why notability is not temporary, see WP:NTEMP. Abbreviations Edit summaries Glossary HTML Shortcuts Templates Wikitext Directory Shortcuts WP:TEMPLATES WP:TM WP:TEMP WP:TEMPLATEINDEX This page provides an index of templates used within Wikipedia, many of which convey messages; they are grouped into topic-specific headings. For information on what templates are, and how the template namespace is intended to be used, see WP:Template namespace. For information on template use and development, see Help:Template. For the project team looking after templates on Wikipedia, see WP:WikiProject Templates. For navigation templates rather than notices, see WP:Navigation templates. For stub templates (used to flag articles as incomplete and needing significant expansion), see WP:WikiProject Stub sorting/Stub types. For some examples of message templates, see WP:Template index/Examples. For examples of combined message boxes, see WP:Template index/Cleanup/Verifiability and sources § Combined message boxes. Using this page The bold links at the top of each cell lead to detailed pages which describe the templates in that section in detail and explain how and when to use them. If you cannot find the template you are looking for, please click on the section headers that seem most relevant, since there may be templates for a particular usage covered on the detailed pages, but not listed in the table below. If you still cannot find the template you need, you can request it on Wikipedia:Requested templates. For help on creating templates, see Help:Template or contact a user who has identified themself as an adept template coder. Note that in order to maintain consistent design of templates, there have been significant discussions about a variety of templates at both Template talk:Ambox and Wikipedia talk:Talk page templates. A more comprehensive category system may also be viewed at Category:Wikipedia templates. Can improvements be made easily to a page? Before placing cleanup templates on a page, it is worthwhile to cast a critical eye over the page to determine whether or not you can make the improvements easily, thus eliminating the need for a tag. Search As an alternative to using this index, you can search the Template namespace using the box below: You can also search Wikipedia:Template messages in the box below: Article-related namespace Please list navigational templates (as, for example, between pages relating to a specific topic) at Wikipedia:Navigation template or at the appropriate WikiProject page. General Disambiguation and redirection Section Footnotes and references Timing-related Title-related Character/symbol notes Expansion requests Disambiguation introductory lines Miscellaneous Cleanup Tag consolidation General cleanup Copy editing Cleanup of specific subjects Fiction Inline with article text Style of writing Structure, formatting and sections Introduction Potentially unwanted content Context and detail Off-topic Expand and add Expert needed Time-sensitive Contradiction and confusion Content forks Importance and notability Neutrality and factual accuracy Verifiability and sources Categories Images Lists Wiki tech Infobox needed Infobox cleanup needed Compact tables of contents (TOC) Non-category pages Alphabetical lists Category pages Alphabetical lists Numeric lists Deletion, discussion, speedy Deletion tools Articles (AfD) Categories (CfD) Files (FfD) Miscellany (MfD) Redirects (RfD) Stub types (SfD) Templates (TfD) Discussion pages Speedy deletion tools Disputes Autobiography Contradictory Controversial Factual accuracy Neutrality Notability Original research Possible neologisms Suspected hoax Unencyclopedic Verifiability Formatting Division boxes Hide/show boxes Image frames Multiple columns Links Internal links (articles, namespaces and categories) Templates German titles External links (databases and websites, etc.) Film and television (IMDb, YouTube, etc.) Games (board and video games, etc.) Geography (locations and maps) Literature (books, etc.) Music Religion Wikis (sister projects, etc.) Miscellaneous (science and the internet, etc.) Lists Dynamic lists Incomplete lists Subject or topic lists Disputed content/length Maintenance Articles requiring significant attention and other issues General attention needed ISSN issues Lack of geopolitical balance Articles undergoing major edits Categorization issues Copyright violations Protected articles, pages and images Merging To be placed on top of the pages or sections which require merging. Moving To be used for, during, and after proposing a move on Wikipedia:Requested moves#Requesting controversial and potentially controversial moves. Redirect pages To be placed below the redirect tag, separated by a blank line. Section Templates that are section-specific. Sources, citations, references Requesting sources and verification General sources Citations of generic sources Citations of specific sources (GFDL, public domain, U.S. government, etc.) Footnotes and links Splitting To be placed on top the pages or sections which require splitting. Standard boxes Calendars Court Decisions Diagrams Game and Puzzle layouts Grids Periodic Table Translation Translation-related cleanup and expansion. Wikimedia sister projects MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Simple Wikibooks Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikispecies Wikiversity Wiktionary Non article-related namespace These templates are for specific namespaces other than the main/article namespace. Category namespace Births in years Books in years Deaths in years Works in years Categorization of people: Subjective category disclaimer Disputed categorisation Category headers File namespace See also: Wikipedia:File copyright tags General Categorization Copy to Wikimedia Commons Creative Commons Deletion Featured content Format and quality Free image / Semi-free image usage GNU/GFDL images Government copyrights (UK, Canada, Poland, etc.) Non-free (copyrighted) images Public domain images Talk namespaces General Archiving Biography Comments Discussion thread tags Expansion requests FAQ Featured and good articles Free images Peer review To do lists Translation requests WikiProject notices Template namespace Template documentation High-use and intricate Template talk page messages User namespace General Languages (Babel) Licensing Open tasks Sockpuppet, blocked, talk page and inactive user alerts User sandboxes Userboxes Wikipedia Awards / Barnstars User talk namespace Multi-level warning templates Single-level warning templates Behavior in articles Behavior towards editors Blatant vandalism Blocks Foreign-language contributors General disruptive editing Inserting factual inaccuracies and/or libel Meta-templates Miscellanea Promotions of objects or ideologies (also spam) Unaccepted practices, unilateral action against policies or guidelines Welcome templates Wikipedia namespace Policies and guidelines Essays and related Humor Maintenance Proposals and disputes Village pump WikiProjects WikiProject banners For Wikipedia namespace. WikiProject banners WikiProject meta templates Banner shells Related pages for specific types of templates Wikipedia:Welcoming committee/Welcome templates – templates to welcome and assist new IP or registered users who have made a number of constructive edits to Wikipedia. Wikipedia:Template index/Main page and alternatives – templates used on the Main Page. Wikipedia:Hatnote and Template:Hatnote templates – documentation for hatnotes. Wikipedia:Template index/Links § External links and Category:External link templates – templates for links to external sites. Wikipedia:Navigation template and Category:Navigational boxes – guidance essay and list. Wikipedia:Inline templates linking country articles – templates that render a flag icon and a wikilink to a country's article, using a list of country codes. Wikipedia:List of infoboxes and Category:Infobox templates – lists of templates for infoboxes, commonly used in articles to present certain summary or overview information about the subject. See Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Infoboxes for guidelines on usage. Template:Taxobox/doc – template usage instructions for taxoboxes used for biological classification. See also Wikipedia:WikiProject Tree of Life for project overview. Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias § Related cleanup templates and Category:Internationalisation maintenance templates – templates for noting a particular national or regional bias of an article and also for asking for a worldwide view. Wikipedia:WikiProject Stub sorting/Stub types – templates that are applied to stubs, from a WikiProject to list stub messages/templates. WikiProjects and standardisation Wikipedia:WikiProject Templates – WikiProject for template standardisation. Wikipedia:WikiProject Infoboxes Wikipedia:WikiProject Inline Templates – earlier WikiProject for template standardisation. Wikipedia:WikiProject Stub sorting Wikipedia:WikiProject Succession Box Standardization Wikipedia:WikiProject User warnings – WikiProject that aims to create a complete, standardised set of user warning templates, with full documentation and help pages. Wikipedia:Template standardisation – current and historical attempts Wikipedia:Deprecated and orphaned templates – historical reference See also Meta has related information at: Template messages MediaWiki has documentation related to: Help:Templates all subpages of this page Help:Template – wiki template help page Help:MediaWiki namespace – one of the standard namespaces in the database structure of the MediaWiki software, on which Wikipedia runs Special:Unusedtemplates – current list of all templates which are not transcluded onto another page Wikipedia:Database reports/Templates transcluded on the most pages – list of most used t contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 58 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Template_index responseCode 3 200 