uaccnkxikqpcnmigemhcoigevojkbgnkhclewidi page 10051 This page is currently under extended confirmed protection. Extended confirmed protection prevents edits from all unregistered editors and registered users with fewer than 30 days tenure and 500 edits. The policy on community use specifies that extended confirmed protection can be applied to combat disruption, if semi-protection has proven to be ineffective. Extended confirmed protection may also be applied to enforce arbitration sanctions. Please discuss any changes on the talk page; you may submit an edit request to ask for uncontroversial changes supported by consensus. This is the talk page for discussing improvements to the 2023 Israel–Hamas war article. This is not a forum for general discussion of the article's subject. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit; get help. Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Article policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Find sources: Google (books · news · scholar · free images · WP refs) · FENS · JSTOR · NYT · TWL Archives: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 Auto-archiving period: 3 days Warning: active arbitration remedies The contentious topics procedure applies to this article. Parts of this article relate to the Arab–Israeli conflict, which is a contentious topic. Furthermore, the following rules apply when editing the parts of the page related to the contentious topic: You must be logged-in, have 500 edits and an account age of 30 days You may not make more than 1 revert within 24 hours on this article (except in limited circumstances) Editors who repeatedly or seriously fail to adhere to the purpose of Wikipedia, any expected standards of behaviour, or any normal editorial process may be blocked or restricted by an administrator. Editors are advised to familiarise themselves with the contentious topics procedures before editing this page. If it is unclear which parts of the page are related to this contentious topic, the content in question should be marked within the wiki text by an invisible comment. If no comment is present, please ask an administrator for assistance. If in doubt it is better to assume that the content is covered. The subject of this article is controversial and content may be in dispute. When updating the article, be bold, but not reckless. Feel free to try to improve the article, but don't take it personally if your changes are reversed; instead, come here to the talk page to discuss them. Content must be written from a neutral point of view. Include citations when adding content and consider tagging or removing unsourced information. This page is not a forum for general discussion about 2023 Israel–Hamas war. Any such comments may be removed or refactored. Please limit discussion to improvement of this article. You may wish to ask factual questions about 2023 Israel–Hamas war at the Reference desk. Wikipedia is not censored. Images or details contained within this article may be graphic or otherwise objectionable to some readers, to ensure a quality article and complete coverage of its subject matter. For more information, please refer to Wikipedia's content disclaimer regarding potentially objectionable content and options to not see an image. This article is written in American English, which has its own spelling conventions (color, defense, traveled) and some terms that are used in it may be different or absent from other varieties of English. According to the relevant style guide, this should not be changed without broad consensus. view · edit Frequently asked questions (FAQ) To view the response to a question, click the [show] link to the right of the question. Article name Q: Can we rename the article? A: No. There is a one-month moratorium on changing the article name (ie. no filing of requested moves or direct moving) starting on 2023-11-01. This was the prevailing opinion at this discussion and can be lifted early only "if there is a significant change in the scope of the war." Read below for detailed reasons why the current name was selected. Q: Why is the article named the way it is? Should we name it something else? A: Please consult the list of "requested moves" listed at the top of the talk page to see the history of multiple extensive discussions that have led to consensus on the current name. In short, the following policies were considered the most relevant: WP:COMMONNAME - Wikipedia... generally prefers the name that is most commonly used (as determined by its prevalence in a significant majority of independent, reliable English-language sources). In October 2023, the majority of prominent English language news sources were using "Israel-Hamas war." WP:NCEVENTS and WP:NCWWW - In the majority of cases, the title of the article should contain the following three descriptors: When the incident happened. Where the incident happened. What happened. This is the rationale for including the year before the title. WP:NOYEAR - Further into the WP:NCEVENTS guideline, there is advice on situations where one can omit the year: Some articles do not need a year for disambiguation when, in historic perspective, the event is easily described without it. User:Levivich summarizes well why the year has been included: Keeping the year in the title will help readers differentiate between this article, 2023 Israel–Hamas war, and other articles about conflicts between Israel and Hamas, like Gaza–Israel conflict, 2008 Israel–Hamas ceasefire, Gaza War (2008–2009), March 2010 Israel–Gaza clashes, March 2012 Gaza–Israel clashes, 2014 Gaza War, November 2018 Gaza–Israel clashes, November 2019 Gaza–Israel clashes, and 2021 Israel–Palestine crisis, among others. WP:NCENPOV - If there is a particular common name for the event, it should be used even if it implies a controversial point of view. Even if we are not fond of the title, we should prefer to use the "common name." Editors should familiarize themselves with these policies and the previous discussions before considering a request to rename the article. Other talk page banners While the biographies of living persons policy does not apply directly to the subject of this article, it may contain material that relates to living persons, such as friends and family of persons no longer living, or living persons involved in the subject matter. Unsourced or poorly sourced contentious material about living persons must be removed immediately. If such material is re-inserted repeatedly, or if there are other concerns related to this policy, please see this noticeboard. This article is rated B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. It is of interest to multiple WikiProjects. Current events Current events portal This article is part of WikiProject Current events, an attempt to expand and better organize information in articles related to current events. If you would like to participate in the project, visit the project page or contribute to the discussion.Current eventsWikipedia:WikiProject Current eventsTemplate:WikiProject Current eventsCurrent events articles Crime and Criminal Biography: Serial killers Low‑importance This article is within the scope of WikiProject Crime and Criminal Biography, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Crime and Criminal Biography articles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.Crime and Criminal BiographyWikipedia:WikiProject Crime and Criminal BiographyTemplate:WikiProject Crime and Criminal BiographyCrime-related articles Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale. This article is supported by the Serial Killer task force (assessed as Low-importance). International relations Low‑importance This article is within the scope of WikiProject International relations, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of International relations on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.International relationsWikipedia:WikiProject International relationsTemplate:WikiProject International relationsInternational relations articles Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale. Islam: Islam and Controversy / Sunni Islam Mid‑importance Islam portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Islam, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Islam-related articles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.IslamWikipedia:WikiProject IslamTemplate:WikiProject IslamIslam-related articles Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale. This article is supported by the Islam and Controversy task force. This article is supported by the Sunni Islam task force. Israel Top‑importance Israel portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Israel, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Israel on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.IsraelWikipedia:WikiProject IsraelTemplate:WikiProject IsraelIsrael-related articles Top This article has been rated as Top-importance on the project's importance scale. Project Israel To Do: edit history watch purge Here are some tasks awaiting attention: Assess : Rate the Unassessed Israel-related articles and Unknown-importance Israel-related articles. Categorization : Diffuse articles from Category:Companies of Israel. Cleanup : Cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the list by category and the tool's wiki page. Collaborate : Participate in WikiProject Israel Pale contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 68 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Talk:2023_Israel%E2%80%93Hamas_war responseCode 3 200 