uadgjaqimqzmngcouqsqwowceabqbqiahejqsmkc length 6 151623 page 10022 This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (September 2017) (template removal help) Part of a series on Taxation An aspect of fiscal policy Policies Government revenue Property tax equalization Tax revenue Non-tax revenue Tax law Tax bracket Flat tax Tax threshold Exemption Credit Deduction Tax shift Tax cut Tax holiday Tax amnesty Tax advantage Tax incentive Tax reform Tax harmonization Tax competition Tax withholding Double taxation Representation Unions Medical savings account Economics General Theory Price effect Excess burden Tax incidence Laffer curve Optimal tax Theories Optimal capital income taxation Distribution of Tax Tax rate Flat Progressive Regressive Proportional Collection Revenue service Revenue stamp Tax assessment Taxable income Tax lien Tax refund Tax shield Tax residence Tax preparation Tax investigation Tax shelter Tax collector Private tax collection Tax farming Noncompliance General Tax avoidance Repatriation tax avoidance Tax evasion Tax resistance Tax shelter Smuggling Black market Unreported employment Corporate Tax inversion Transfer mispricing Base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) Double Irish Dutch Sandwich Single Malt CAIA/Green Jersey Locations Tax havens Corporate havens Offshore financial centres (OFCs) Offshore magic circle Conduit and sink OFCs Financial centres Financial Secrecy Index Major examples Ireland as a tax haven Ireland v Commission Leprechaun economics Liechtenstein tax affair Luxembourg Leaks Offshore Leaks Paradise Papers Panama Papers Swiss Leaks United States as a tax haven Panama as a tax haven Types Direct Indirect Per unit Ad valorem Aviation Airport improvement Landing Solidarity Capital gains Expatriation Consumption Departure Hotel Sales Stamp Television Tourist Value-added Dividend Environmental tax Carbon Landfill Natural resources consumption Severance Steering Stumpage Excise Alcohol Cigarette Fat Meat Sin Sugary drink Tobacco General Georgist Gift Gross receipts Hypothecated Income Inheritance (estate) Land value Luxury Payroll Pigouvian Property Single Surtax Turnover Use User charge/fee Congestion Fuel Road/GNSS Toll Vehicle miles traveled Corporate profit Excess profits Windfall Negative (income) Wealth International Financial transaction tax Currency transaction tax European Union Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) Global minimum corporate tax rate Tobin tax Spahn tax Tax equalization Tax treaty Exchange of Information Permanent establishment Transfer pricing European Union FTT Foreign revenue rule Trade Custom Duty Tariff Import Export Tariff war Free trade Free-trade zone Trade agreement ATA Carnet Research Academic Mihir A. Desai Dhammika Dharmapala James R. Hines Jr. Ronen Palan Joel Slemrod Gabriel Zucman Advocacy groups Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (ITEP) Oxfam (UK) Tax Foundation (US) Tax Justice Network (TJN) Tax Policy Center (US) Religious Church tax Eight per thousand Teind Tithe Fiscus Judaicus Leibzoll Temple tax Tolerance tax Jizya Kharaj Khums Nisab Zakat By country All Countries List of countries by tax rates Tax revenue to GDP ratio Tax rates in Europe Individual Countries Albania Algeria Argentina Armenia Australia Azerbaijan Bangladesh Bhutan Brazil Bulgaria BVI Canada China Colombia Croatia Denmark Finland France Germany Greece Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Ireland Israel Italy Japan Kazakhstan Lithuania Malta Morocco Namibia Netherlands New Zealand Norway Pakistan Palestine Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Russia South Africa Sri Lanka Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Tanzania United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Business portal Money portal v t e Taxes in Spain are levied by national (central), regional and local governments. Tax revenue in Spain stood at 36.3% of GDP in 2013.[1] A wide range of taxes are levied on different sources, the most important ones being income tax, social security contributions, corporate tax, value added tax; some of them are applied at national level and others at national and regional levels. Most national and regional taxes are collected by the Agencia Estatal de Administración Tributaria which is the bureau responsible for collecting taxes at the national level. Other minor taxes like property transfer tax (regional), real estate property tax (local), road tax (local) are collected directly by regional or local administrations. Four historical territories or foral provinces (Araba/Álava, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Navarre) collect all national and regional taxes themselves and subsequently transfer the portion due to the central Government after two negotiations called Concierto (in which the first three territories, that conform the Basque Autonomous Community, agree their defense jointly) and the Convenio (in which the territory and Community of Navarre defense itself alone). The tax year in Spain follows the calendar year. The tax collection method depends on the tax; some of them are collected by self-assessment, but others (i.e. income tax) follow a system of pay-as-you-earn tax with monthly withholdings that follow a self-assessment at the end of the term. Tax rate in Spain for a Single Income tax[edit] Personal income tax in Spain, known as IRPF, was introduced in 1900. It represents nearly 38% of government revenues.[2] Since 2007, the responsibility for regulating and collecting personal income tax has been decentralized, the autonomous regions being responsible for collecting 50% of tax revenue (although all the returns and amounts are actually received by the central tax authority on their behalf). A single national rate applies per taxation band for the whole national portion of the income tax. Tax rates on the regional portion vary between regions, Madrid having the lowest and Catalonia the highest. Tax is withheld by the employer monthly on behalf of the tax authority. Tax returns are submitted between April and June of the following year and refunds are normally paid between May and July, however, the Government has until the end of the year to liquidate before the taxpayer has a right to interest for the outstanding money: any payments not paid by this date are paid with interest from the beginning of the next year. As in other jurisdictions income tax is payable by both residents and non-residents with different rates applying. Individual residents are subject to personal income tax (IRPF) based on their income from around the globe. Non-residents are subject to IRPF only on their Spanish-sourced income.[3] Residence status must be established when filing a Spanish tax return and has consequences for the amount of tax due. The rules are complex.[4] Spain considers any alien to be resident if they were living in Spain for more than 183 days in the tax year. Sporadic periods of time outside of Spain are not counted towards establishing oneself as a non-resident for tax purposes. An alien is also considered a resident if s/he has a spouse or underage child who are residents, as well as any alien who has their main economic center in Spain. When there is a residence conflict double taxation agreement must be checked. Allowances and deductions[edit] Some amounts are subtracted from the income tax base before the rate is applied. Allowances are adjusted annually by law. Allowances vary depending on whether the income is from labor, the taxpayer is single or lives with elderly relatives or dependants, challenge conditions of the taxpayer or those they live with, the autonomous community where they live, and other issues. Also, the amount may be reduced by declaring income with your spouse if you are married and some expenditures (like contributions to unions, personal pension funds, etc.). The figures given below are valid for the year 2019.[5] The personal tax allowance differs depending on age. For the year 2019 under 65s, the personal tax allowance is €5,550. Individuals aged between 65 and 75 are allowed a €6,700 personal allowance. Anyone above 75 receives the highest personal allowance at €8,100. There is an elderly relative allowance which lowers the taxable income and applies to those taxpayers who live with relatives older than 65 (or with relatives of any age with a disability graded at 33% or more) who do not have income themselves. This allowance is €1,150 if the relative is aged up to 75 and €2,550 above the age of 75. There is also a dependants allowance which also lowers the taxable income base. It applies to taxpayers who live with dependants younger than 25 (or with dependants of any age with a disability graded at 33% or more). For the first dependent, the allowance is €2,400. The allowance for the second dependent is €2,700, the allowance for the third dependent is €4,000, and each further child has an allowance of €4,400. In addition to dependant allowances, there is a maternity allowance which is €1,200 for each child under the age of 3. There are also other reductions and deductions applicable for expenditures and housing (home rental and purchasing). The exact amount of the deduction depends on the amount of the expenditure though it is topped. Some autonomous communities (like Cantabria, Castilla-La Mancha and Madrid) have different allowances for their own share of the income tax and also establish their own deductions. Retired expatriates living in Spain who receive an income within Spain for tax purposes and a pension from their native country will need to calculate their income tax[6] and allowances by first identifying their marginal rate of income tax. This can be quite complex given the differing tax rates and thresholds within specific tax regions and variances in allowances. Current rates[edit] Once the gross income has been reduced by the legal allowances, reductions, and deductions, the taxpayer has to apply the rate to find out the actual tax. As of Janu contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Taxation_in_Spain responseCode 3 200 