ucgovogkmotsscvooseoboraaegcfcuaimmetgke length 6 543837 page 10008 Condition where males and females exhibit different characteristics "Sex differences" redirects here. For sexual dimorphism in humans, see Sex differences in humans. Not to be confused with Gonochorism. Mandarin ducks, male (left) and female (right), illustrating the dramatic difference in plumage between sexes, a manifestation of sexual dimorphism Part of a series on Sex Biological terms Sexual dimorphism Sexual differentiation Feminization Virilization Sex-determination system XY XO ZW ZO Temperature-dependent Haplodiploidy Heterogametic sex Homogametic sex Sex chromosome X chromosome Y chromosome Testis-determining factor Hermaphrodite Sequential hermaphroditism Simultaneous hermaphroditism Intersex (biology) Mating type Sexual reproduction Evolution of sexual reproduction Anisogamy Isogamy Germ cell Meiosis Gametogenesis Spermatogenesis Oogenesis Gamete spermatozoon ovum Fertilization External fertilization Internal fertilization Sexual selection Plant reproduction Fungal reproduction Sexual reproduction in animals Sexual intercourse Copulation Human reproduction Lordosis behavior Pelvic thrust Sexuality Plant sexuality Animal sexuality Human sexuality Mechanics Differentiation Activity Sexual system Dioecy Gonochorism Hermaphrodite v t e Sexual dimorphism is the condition where sexes of the same species exhibit different morphological characteristics, particularly characteristics not directly involved in reproduction.[1] The condition occurs in most dioeceous species, which consist of most animals and some plants. Differences may include secondary sex characteristics, size, weight, color, markings, or behavioral or cognitive traits. Male-male reproductive competition has evolved a diverse array of sexually dimorphic traits. Aggressive utility traits such as "battle" teeth and blunt heads reinforced as battering rams are used as weapons in aggressive interactions between rivals. Passive displays such as ornamental feathering or song-calling have also evolved mainly through sexual selection.[2] These differences may be subtle or exaggerated and may be subjected to sexual selection and natural selection. The opposite of dimorphism is monomorphism, when both biological sexes are phenotypically indistinguishable from each other.[3] Overview[edit] The peacock, on the right, is courting the peahen, on the left. Male (bottom) and female mallards. The male mallard has an unmistakable bottle green head when his breeding plumage is present. Ornamentation and coloration[edit] Orgyia antiqua male (left) and female (right). Common and easily identified types of dimorphism consist of ornamentation and coloration, though not always apparent. A difference in the coloration of sexes within a given species is called sexual dichromatism, commonly seen in many species of birds and reptiles.[4] Sexual selection leads to exaggerated dimorphic traits that are used predominantly in competition over mates.[5] The increased fitness resulting from ornamentation offsets its cost to produce or maintain, suggesting complex evolutionary implications, but the costs and evolutionary implications vary from species to species.[6] The peafowl constitute conspicuous illustrations of the principle. The ornate plumage of peacocks, as used in the courting display, attracts peahens. At first sight, one might mistake peacocks and peahens for completely different species because of the vibrant colours and the sheer size of the male's plumage; the peahen is of a subdued brown coloration.[7] The plumage of the peacock increases its vulnerability to predators because it is a hindrance in flight, and it renders the bird conspicuous in general.[7] Similar examples are manifold, such as in birds of paradise and argus pheasants.[citation needed] Another example of sexual dichromatism is that of nestling blue tits. Males are chromatically more yellow than females. It is believed that this is obtained by the ingestion of green Lepidopteran larvae, which contain large amounts of the carotenoids lutein and zeaxanthin.[8] This diet also affects the sexually dimorphic colours in the human-invisible ultraviolet spectrum.[9][10] Hence, the male birds, although appearing yellow to humans, actually have a violet-tinted plumage that is seen by females. This plumage is thought to be an indicator of male parental abilities.[11] Perhaps this is a good indicator for females because it shows that they are good at obtaining a food supply from which the carotenoid is obtained. There is a positive correlation between the chromas of the tail and breast feathers and body condition.[12] Carotenoids play an important role in immune function for many animals, so carotenoid dependent signals might indicate health.[13] Frogs constitute another conspicuous illustration of the principle. There are two types of dichromatism for frog species: ontogenetic and dynamic. Ontogenetic frogs are more common and have permanent color changes in males or females. Ranoidea lesueuri is an example of a dynamic frog with temporary color changes in males during the breeding season.[14] Hyperolius ocellatus is an ontogenetic frog with dramatic differences in both color and pattern between the sexes. At sexual maturity, the males display a bright green with white dorsolateral lines.[15] In contrast, the females are rusty red to silver with small spots. The bright coloration in the male population attracts females and is an aposematic sign to potential predators. Females often show a preference for exaggerated male secondary sexual characteristics in mate selection.[16] The sexy son hypothesis explains that females prefer more elaborate males and select against males that are dull in color, independent of the species' vision.[17] Similar sexual dimorphism and mating choice are also observed in many fish species. For example, male guppies have colorful spots and ornamentations, while females are generally grey. Female guppies prefer brightly colored males to duller males.[18][page needed] In redlip blennies, only the male fish develops an organ at the anal-urogenital region that produces antimicrobial substances. During parental care, males rub their anal-urogenital regions over their nests' internal surfaces, thereby protecting their eggs from microbial infections, one of the most common causes for mortality in young fish.[19] Plants[edit] Most flowering plants are hermaphroditic but approximately 6% of species have separate males and females (dioecy).[20] Sexual dimorphism is common in dioecious plants[21]: 403  and dioicous species.[22]: 71  Males and females in insect-pollinated species generally look similar to one another because plants provide rewards (e.g. nectar) that encourage pollinators to visit another similar flower, completing pollination. Catasetum orchids are one interesting exception to this rule. Male Catasetum orchids violently attach pollinia to euglossine bee pollinators. The bees will then avoid other male flowers but may visit the female, which looks different from the males.[23] Various other dioecious exceptions, such as Loxostylis alata have visibly different sexes, with the effect of eliciting the most efficient behavior from pollinators, who then use the most efficient strategy in visiting each gender of flower instead of searching, say, for pollen in a nectar-bearing female flower.[citation needed] Some plants, such as some species of Geranium have what amounts to serial sexual dimorphism. The flowers of such species might, for example, present their anthers on opening, then shed the exhausted anthers after a day or two and perhaps change their colours as well while the pistil matures; specialist pollinators are very much inclined to concentrate on the exact appearance of the flowers they serve, which saves their time and effort and serves the interests of the plant accordingly. Some such plants go even further and change their appearance once fertilized, thereby discouraging further visits from pollinators. This is advantageous to both parties because it avoids damaging the developing fruit and wasting the pollinator's effort on unrewarding visits. In effect, the strategy ensures that pollinators can expect a reward every time they visit an appropriately advertising flower.[citation needed] Females of the aquatic plant Vallisneria americana have floating flowers attached by a long flower stalk that are fertilized if they contact one of the thousands of free-floating flowers released by a male.[24][better source needed] Sexual dimorphism is most often associated with wind-pollination in plants due to selection for efficient pollen dispersal in males vs pollen capture in females, e.g. Leucadendron rubrum.[25] Sexual dimorphism in plants can also be dependent on reproductive development. This can be seen in Cannabis sativa, a type of hemp, which have higher photosynthesis rates in males while growing but higher rates in females once the plants become sexually mature.[26] Every sexually reproducing extant species of the vascular plant has an alternation of generations; the plants we see about us generally are diploid sporophytes, but their offspring are not the seeds that people commonly recognize as the new generation. The seed actually is the offspring of the haploid generation of microgametophytes (pollen) and megagametophytes (the embryo sacs in the ovules). Each pollen grain accordingly may be seen as a male plant in its own right; it produces a sperm cell and is dramatically different from the female plant, the megagametophyte that produces the female gamete.[citation needed] Insects[edit] Colias dimera mating. The male is a brighter yellow than the female. Insects display a wide variety of sexual dimorphism between taxa including size, ornamentation and coloration.[27] The female-biased sexual size dimorphism observed in many taxa evolved despite intense male-male competition for mates.[28] In Osmia rufa, for example, the female is larger/broader than males, with males contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Sexual_dimorphism responseCode 3 200 