ucheziyogimkuchapiisqgxmqqqsuslmhgniheuc length 6 112918 page 9254 Study of chemical phenomena using mathematical models Mathematics Areas Number theory Geometry Algebra Calculus and analysis Discrete mathematics Logic and set theory Probability Statistics and decision sciences Relationship with sciences Physics Chemistry Geosciences Computation Biology Linguistics Economics Philosophy Education Portal v t e Part of a series on Chemistry Science of matter Index Outline Glossary History (timeline) Key components Matter Phase Bond Chemical reaction Ion Acid–base reaction Redox Chemical equilibrium Chemical law Branches Analytical chemistry Biochemistry Organic chemistry Inorganic chemistry Physical chemistry Research Chemist (list) List of chemistry awards List of journals List of unsolved problems Chemistry portal Category v t e Mathematical chemistry[1] is the area of research engaged in novel applications of mathematics to chemistry; it concerns itself principally with the mathematical modeling of chemical phenomena.[2] Mathematical chemistry has also sometimes been called computer chemistry, but should not be confused with computational chemistry. Major areas of research in mathematical chemistry include chemical graph theory, which deals with topology such as the mathematical study of isomerism and the development of topological descriptors or indices which find application in quantitative structure-property relationships; and chemical aspects of group theory, which finds applications in stereochemistry and quantum chemistry. Another important area is molecular knot theory and circuit topology that describe the topology of folded linear molecules such as proteins and Nucleic Acids. The history of the approach may be traced back to the 19th century. Georg Helm published a treatise titled "The Principles of Mathematical Chemistry: The Energetics of Chemical Phenomena" in 1894.[3] Some of the more contemporary periodical publications specializing in the field are MATCH Communications in Mathematical and in Computer Chemistry, first published in 1975, and the Journal of Mathematical Chemistry, first published in 1987. In 1986 a series of annual conferences MATH/CHEM/COMP taking place in Dubrovnik was initiated by the late Ante Graovac. The basic models for mathematical chemistry are molecular graph and topological index. In 2005 the International Academy of Mathematical Chemistry (IAMC) was founded in Dubrovnik (Croatia) by Milan Randić. The Academy has 82 members (2009) from all over the world, including six scientists awarded with a Nobel Prize. See also[edit] Chemical reaction network theory – Area of applied mathematics Cheminformatics – Interdisciplinary science Combinatorial chemistry – chemical methods designed to rapidly synthesize large numbers of chemical compoundsPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Molecular descriptor – final result of a logic and mathematical procedure which transforms chemical information encoded within a symbolic representation of a molecule into a useful number or the result of some standardized experiment; concept from cheminformaticsPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Molecular modelling – Discovering chemical properties by physical simulations List of quantum chemistry and solid state physics software List of software for molecular mechanics modeling Random graph theory of gelation Bibliography[edit] Molecular Descriptors for Chemoinformatics, by R. Todeschini and V. Consonni, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2009. Mathematical Chemistry Series, by D. Bonchev, D. H. Rouvray (Eds.), Gordon and Breach Science Publisher, Amsterdam, 2000. Chemical Graph Theory, by N. Trinajstic, CRC Press, Boca Raton, 1992. Mathematical Concepts in Organic Chemistry, by I. Gutman, O. E. Polansky, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1986. Chemical Applications of Topology and Graph Theory, ed. by R. B. King, Elsevier, 1983. Topological approach to the chemistry of conjugated molecules, by A. Graovac, I. Gutman, and N. Trinajstic, Lecture Notes in Chemistry, no.4, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1977. Notes[edit] ^ Restrepo, G. Mathematical chemistry, a new discipline. In Essays in the philosophy of chemistry, Scerri, E.; Fisher, G., Eds.; Oxford University Press: New York, UK, 2016; Chapter 15, 332-351. [1] ^ A review of the book by Ivan Gutman, Oskar E. Polansky, "Mathematical Concepts in Organic Chemistry" in SIAM Review Vol. 30, No. 2 (1988), pp. 348-350 ^ Helm, Georg. The Principles of Mathematical Chemistry: The Energetics of Chemical Phenomena. translated by J. Livingston R. Morgan. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1897. [2] References[edit] N. Trinajstić, I. Gutman, Mathematical Chemistry, Croatica Chemica Acta, 75(2002), pp. 329–356. A. T. Balaban, Reflections about Mathematical Chemistry, Foundations of Chemistry, 7(2005), pp. 289–306. G. Restrepo, J. L. Villaveces, Mathematical Thinking in Chemistry, HYLE, 18(2012), pp. 3–22. Advances in Mathematical Chemistry and Applications. Volume 2. Basak S. C., Restrepo G., Villaveces J. L. (Bentham Science eBooks, 2015) External links[edit] Journal of Mathematical Chemistry MATCH Communications in Mathematical and in Computer Chemistry International Academy of Mathematical Chemistry v t e Major mathematics areas History Timeline Future Outline Lists Glossary Foundations Category theory Information theory Mathematical logic Philosophy of mathematics Set theory Type theory Algebra Abstract Commutative Elementary Group theory Linear Multilinear Universal Homological Analysis Calculus Real analysis Complex analysis Hypercomplex analysis Differential equations Functional analysis Harmonic analysis Measure theory Discrete Combinatorics Graph theory Order theory Geometry Algebraic Analytic Arithmetic Differential Discrete Euclidean Finite Number theory Arithmetic Algebraic number theory Analytic number theory Diophantine geometry Topology General Algebraic Differential Geometric Homotopy theory Applied Engineering mathematics Mathematical biology Mathematical chemistry Mathematical economics Mathematical finance Mathematical physics Mathematical psychology Mathematical sociology Mathematical statistics Probability Statistics Systems science Control theory Game theory Operations research Computational Computer science Theory of computation Computational complexity theory Numerical analysis Optimization Computer algebra Related topics Mathematicians lists Informal mathematics Films about mathematicians Recreational mathematics Mathematics and art Mathematics education Mathematics portal Category Commons WikiProject v t e Branches of chemistry Glossary of chemical formulae List of biomolecules List of inorganic compounds Periodic table Analytical Instrumental chemistry Electroanalytical methods Spectroscopy IR Raman UV-Vis NMR Mass spectrometry EI ICP MALDI Separation process Chromatography GC HPLC Crystallography Characterization Titration Wet chemistry Calorimetry Elemental analysis Theoretical Quantum chemistry Computational chemistry Mathematical chemistry Molecular modelling Molecular mechanics Molecular dynamics Molecular geometry VSEPR theory Physical Electrochemistry Spectroelectrochemistry Photoelectrochemistry Thermochemistry Chemical thermodynamics Surface science Interface and colloid science Micromeritics Cryochemistry Sonochemistry Structural chemistry Chemical physics Molecular physics Femtochemistry Chemical kinetics Spectroscopy Photochemistry Spin chemistry Microwave chemistry Equilibrium chemistry Inorganic Coordination chemistry Magnetochemistry Organometallic chemistry Organolanthanide chemistry Cluster chemistry Solid-state chemistry Ceramic chemistry Organic Stereochemistry Alkane stereochemistry Physical organic chemistry Organic reactions Organic synthesis Retrosynthetic analysis Enantioselective synthesis Total synthesis / Semisynthesis Fullerene chemistry Polymer chemistry Petrochemistry Dynamic covalent chemistry Biological Biochemistry Molecular biology Cell biology Chemical biology Bioorthogonal chemistry Medicinal chemistry Pharmacology Clinical chemistry Neurochemistry Bioorganic chemistry Bioorganometallic chemistry Bioinorganic chemistry Biophysical chemistry Interdisciplinarity Nuclear chemistry Radiochemistry Radiation chemistry Actinide chemistry Cosmochemistry / Astrochemistry / Stellar chemistry Geochemistry Biogeochemistry Photogeochemistry Environmental chemistry Atmospheric chemistry Ocean chemistry Clay chemistry Carbochemistry Food chemistry Carbohydrate chemistry Food physical chemistry Agricultural chemistry Soil chemistry Chemistry education Amateur chemistry General chemistry Clandestine chemistry Forensic chemistry Forensic toxicology Post-mortem chemistry Nanochemistry Supramolecular chemistry Chemical synthesis Green chemistry Click chemistry Combinatorial chemistry Biosynthesis Chemical engineering Stoichiometry Materials science Metallurgy Ceramic engineering Polymer science See also History of chemistry Nobel Prize in Chemistry Timeline of chemistry of element discoveries "The central science" Chemical reaction Catalysis Chemical element Chemical compound Atom Molecule Ion Chemical substance Chemical bond Alchemy Quantum mechanics Category Commons Portal WikiProject Authority control databases: National Czech Republic contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Mathematical_chemistry responseCode 3 200 