ucseqejsjanoommgbqikcgietsbagmlixiasusea length 6 279149 page 10006 Use of IRC on Wikimedia For the policy concerning the use of Wikipedia as a chat room, see WP:FORUM. Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Chat Meetups Directories (Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects) This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, and may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcut WP:CHAT This external system is not subject to the WMF Privacy Policy. Wikimedia IRC has been migrated from freenode to Libera Chat. For more information, please see meta:IRC/Migrating to Libera Chat. References to freenode on this page and others may be out of date. New to IRC? Please go to the IRC channel to reach our online helpers! To begin using Wikimedia IRC channels, see: IRC/Tutorial and m:IRC/Instructions. For the related WikiProjects, see:WikiProject IRC and WikiProject IRC collaboration. The Libera Chat network has "chat rooms" dedicated to Wikipedia 24 hours a day, in which Wikipedians can engage in real-time discussions with each other. Many Wikipedians have chatting open in one window and hop back and forth between it and other windows in which they are working on Wikipedia. The chat rooms most relevant to English Wikipedia are listed hereafter; a more complete list of channels (for other language Wikipedias, other languages, and recent changes feeds) exists at m:IRC/Channels. "Chat room" is a name for an Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channel. IRC chat takes place on a network of servers; the network that hosts the Wikimedia channels is known as Libera Chat. To participate in the chat, you need a type of program or plug-in called an IRC client. Popular clients are listed below. Use and anonymity on IRC are covered in more detail below. Note that IRC needs more care to maintain anonymity than Wikipedia editing does. Anyone can see your IP until you become cloaked, and the process to become cloaked is not immediate. How is Wikipedia IRC related to Wikipedia?[edit] Wikipedia IRC is not owned or controlled by Wikipedia/Wikimedia. It is a project run by volunteers of their own accord. The Wikipedia channels on Libera Chat were designed by users of Wikipedia as places for Wikipedians to chat using IRC. They are casual and not logged publicly. As far as their influence on Wikipedia goes, IRC is equivalent to a conversation in a pub – the discussion may be conducted between a small number of people but may be overheard by hundreds, or more if the logs are published. Shortcut WP:IRCADMIN When the channels are used to attack Wikipedians, or when IRC discussions are cited as justification for an on-wiki action, the resulting atmosphere is very damaging to the project's collaborative relationships. IRC tutorial and host masking[edit] Main page: Wikipedia:IRC/Tutorial Register your nickname[edit] If you want to use a certain nickname on the network and don't want anyone else to take it, and also to be added to a channel's access list, you must register your nickname with the network. You can do so by typing (in any window): /msg nickserv register password email@address.tld, of course substituting password for any password of your choosing, and email@address.tld with your email address. Follow the steps (including sending a confirmation message in an email). Then configure your IRC client to send an identify message upon login, such as /msg nickserv identify password. Anonymity and masking[edit] Main article: meta:IRC/Cloaks As on Wikipedia itself, you can use IRC with a name that hides your IP address, and allows you to remember your preferred settings. If you have any special access rights to any channel, those will be remembered under your name too. On IRC these are two separate matters – registering a nickname is quick and easy (like on Wikipedia itself), and that name is then password protected for your own use, and cloaking is the request to have the account configured to hide its IP address from other users. These matters are all covered in the IRC tutorial. To request that your IRC account be cloaked, send the following private message: /msg wmopbot cloak. Group Contacts then process these by hand. Cloaking is optional, but a good idea. Cloak requests typically take several weeks to process. The following are the requirements necessary to obtain a cloak: User must have a verified e-mail address (throwaway/disposable emails are not acceptable) User must have at least 250 edits on Wikimedia projects User must have a Wikimedia project account registered for at least three months User must not be actively blocked from a project Note that anonymity is maintained with more difficulty on IRC than on Wikipedia. Without a hostmask, your IP address will be visible, and indexed on some Internet websites. Even with a hostmask, your IP address is at risk of being revealed due to the nature of the IRC protocol (due to the effects of a "ghost" session). If you are concerned about your anonymity, you may wish to consult with someone familiar with IRC. Another straightforward way of guaranteeing anonymity on IRC (and elsewhere) is to subscribe with a VPN service provider. This will re-route all your Internet traffic and effectively replace your IP address with the service providers. Alternatively, Tor may be used to connect. Libera Chat provides an onion service under libera75jm6of4wxpxt4aynol3xjmbtxgfyjpu34ss4d7r7q2v5zrpyd.onion but authentication using SASL EXTERNAL or ECDSA-NIST256P-CHALLENGE is mandatory. Tor access to the clearnet domain (irc.libera.chat) is blocked.[1] Publicly logged channels[edit] There are several Wikimedia channels which are purposefully logged. Some of them are listed here: #wikidata connect (logged by wm-bot) #wikimedia-labs connect (logged by wm-bot) #wikimedia-mobile connect (logged by wm-bot) #wikimedia-toolserver connect (logged by wm-bot) #wikimedia-operations connect (logged by wm-bot) #wikimedia-tech connect (logged by wm-bot) #wikimedia-dev connect (logged by wm-bot) #mediawiki connect (logged by wm-bot) #wikimedia-office connect (publicly logged when a scheduled staff discussion is happening) List of applications and web clients[edit] Shortcuts WP:IRCCLIENT WP:IRCHOW Most people needing live help editing Wikipedia can access IRC easily by clicking here: #wikipedia-en-help connect. Web-based IRC is a good choice for first-time IRC users, for portable use, and for those who cannot, or prefer not to, install separate software. The usual way to access IRC is by downloading an IRC client. These are more full-featured and make it easy to watch multiple chats at a time. Scripts to enhance IRC clients are available online at Wikipedia:Scripts. From the long list of IRC clients, some popular options are: Web clients IRCCloud (website) KiwiIRC (website) Most desktop operating systems (including Windows, macOS, and Linux/*nix) ChatZilla (website; requires SeaMonkey) Element (website) HexChat (website) irssi (website; text-based user interface, runs in your terminal) Pidgin (website) WeeChat (website; text-based interface) Windows only AdiIRC (website; freeware) mIRC (website; shareware) macOS only Adium (website) Colloquy (website) Mobile IRC clients Colloquy (Apple App store) Element (Apple App store, Google Play store, F-Droid) IRCCloud (Apple App store, Google Play store) IRC error: Unable to join channel (invite only)[edit] This error occurs when you attempt to join a non-public channel (see non-public channels, below). If you know that you have access to a non-public channel and you still receive this error, the simplest fix is to ask ChanServ for an invite (see /msg ChanServ help invite for more info). If you have a cloak, you can ask a channel op to add an invex (+I) on your cloak so that you do not need to ask ChanServ for invites each time you need to join the channel. If, however, you know you both have access to the non-public channel and you know that you have an invex (+I) on your cloak for that channel, your client might be automatically joining the channel before authenticating. Double-check to make sure your client is set up according to Libera Chat's connection guide, and configure your client to log in when you connect. Use of IRC[edit] Once you are connected to the Libera Chat IRC network, you can choose which public channels you join and which chats you engage in. If you are authorized to join non-public channels then you can take part in those too. Consider also requesting a cloak to mask your IP address and give other users confidence that you are the Wikipedia user you claim to be. In general on IRC, each channel operates autonomously and each has its own norms and policies—these may cover conduct (including civility, appropriate topics, and language), on/off-topic chat, who may join, and who may be asked to leave. Each channel is autonomous and in general there is no appeal from a decision by the operators of that channel to an outside body (which may have any or no reason), so it is worth checking the channel norms and rules before accidentally making a mistake of conduct. That said, in general most channels used by Wikimedia communities are friendly and do have people you can contact in case of problems. (See problems and help below.) Once connected, some users stay logged-in to the chatrooms whenever they are on Wikipedia, and check in on the discussions from time to time, to read what has been accumulating there and to participate. Some programs used for chatting notify you whenever there is activity in a chat room so you will not miss anything. Often, users jump onto a chat room to draw the attention of others there of something on Wikipedia that needs attention. Non-public channels[edit] Further information: Wikipedia:IRC/Channel access and configuration guide A number of non-public channels exist, to which access is limited. The best known of these on English Wikipedia  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:IRC responseCode 3 200 