uetmiaygpafmggcmpcmaromakoyomeqqckigwmdk length 6 440970 page 10008 This article is about one of the United States military reserve forces. For other countries that have a National Guard, see National Guard. For other United States military reserves, see Reserve components of the United States Armed Forces. State-based reserve force of the United States Army and Air Force National Guard Seal Active English colonial militia: since December 13, 1636 As "National Guard": since 1824 in New York, since 1903 nationwide Dual state-federal reserve forces: since 1933 Country United States Allegiance Federal (10 U.S.C. § E) State and territorial (32 U.S.C.) Branch U.S. Army U.S. Air Force Type Reserve force Militia Size 443,543 Part of National Guard Bureau Garrison/HQ All 50 U.S. states, and organized U.S. territories, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia Nickname(s) "Air Guard", "Army Guard" Motto(s) "Always Ready, Always There!" March Always Ready, Always There Website www.nationalguard.mil Commanders Commander-in-Chief President Joe Biden Chief GEN Daniel R. Hokanson, USA Vice Chief Lt Gen Marc H. Sasseville, USAF Senior Enlisted Advisor SEANGB Tony L. Whitehead, USAF Insignia Seal of the Army National Guard Seal of the Air National Guard Military unit The National Guard is a state-based military force that becomes part of the reserve components of the United States Army and the United States Air Force when activated for federal missions.[1] It is a military reserve force composed of National Guard military members or units of each state and the territories of Guam, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, for a total of 54 separate organizations. It is officially created under Congress's Article 1 Section 8 ability to "raise and support armies".[2] All members of the National Guard are also members of the organized militia of the United States as defined by 10 U.S.C. § 246. National Guard units are under the dual control of state governments and the federal government.[1] The majority of National Guard soldiers and airmen hold a civilian job full-time while serving part-time as a National Guard member.[3][4] These part-time guardsmen are augmented by a full-time cadre of Active Guard & Reserve (AGR) personnel in both the Army National Guard and Air National Guard, plus Army Reserve Technicians in the Army National Guard and Air Reserve Technicians (ART) in the Air National Guard. The National Guard is a joint activity of the United States Department of Defense (DoD) composed of reserve components of the United States Army and the United States Air Force: the Army National Guard[3] and the Air National Guard, respectively.[3] Colonial militias were formed during the British colonization of the Americas from the 16th century onward. The first colony-wide militia was formed by Massachusetts in 1636 by merging small, older local units, and several National Guard units can be traced back to this militia. The various colonial militias became state militias when the United States became independent. The title "National Guard" was used in 1824 by some New York State militia units, named after the French National Guard in honor of the Marquis de Lafayette. "National Guard" became a standard nationwide militia title in 1903, and has specifically indicated reserve forces under mixed state and federal control since 1933. Origins[edit] 1953 postage stamp The first muster of militia forces in what is today the United States took place on September 16, 1565, in the newly established Spanish military town of St. Augustine. The militia men were assigned to guard the expedition's supplies while their leader, Pedro Menéndez de Avilés, took the regular troops north to attack the French settlement at Fort Caroline on the St. Johns River.[5] This Spanish militia tradition and the English tradition that was established to the north provided the basic nucleus for Colonial defense in the New World. The militia tradition continued with the New World's first permanent English settlements. Jamestown Colony (established in 1607) and Plymouth Colony (established in 1620) both had militia forces, which initially consisted of every able-bodied adult male. By the mid-1600s every town had at least one militia company (usually commanded by an officer with the rank of captain), and the militia companies of a county formed a regiment (usually commanded by an officer with the rank of major in the 1600s or a colonel in the 1700s). The first federal laws regulating the militia were the Militia acts of 1792. From the nation's founding through the early 1900s, the United States maintained only a minimal army and relied on state militias, directly related to the earlier Colonial militias to supply the majority of its troops.[6] As a result of the Spanish–American War, Congress was called upon to reform and regulate state militias' training and qualification. In 1903, with passage of the Dick Act, the predecessor to the modern-day National Guard was formed. It required the states to divide their militias into two sections. The law recommended the title "National Guard" for the first section, known as the organized militia, and "Reserve Militia" for all others.[7] During World War I, Congress passed the National Defense Act of 1916, which required the use of the term "National Guard" for the state militias and further regulated them. Congress also authorized the states to maintain Home Guards, which were reserve forces outside the National Guards deployed by the federal government.[8] In 1933, with passage of the National Guard Mobilization Act, Congress finalized the split between the National Guard and the traditional state militias by mandating that all federally funded soldiers take a dual enlistment/commission and thus enter both the state National Guard and the National Guard of the United States, a newly created federal reserve force. The National Defense Act of 1947 created the Air Force as a separate branch of the Armed Forces and concurrently created the Air National Guard of the United States as one of its reserve components, mirroring the Army's structure. Organization[edit] Territorial organization[edit] The National Guard of the several states, territories, and the District of Columbia serves as part of the first line of defense for the United States.[9] The state National Guard is organized into units stationed in each of the 50 states, three territories, and the District of Columbia, and operates under their respective state or territorial governor, except in the instance of Washington, D.C., where the National Guard operates under the President of the United States or his designee. The governors exercise control through the state adjutants general.[10] Governors may call up the National Guard for active duty to help respond to domestic emergencies and disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, and earthquakes.[10] National Guard Bureau[edit] Seal of the National Guard Bureau, 2013 to present[11] The National Guard is administered by the National Guard Bureau, a joint activity of the Army and Air Force under the DoD.[12][13] The National Guard Bureau provides a communication channel for state National Guards to the DoD.[14] The National Guard Bureau also provides policies and requirements for training and funds for state Army National Guard and state Air National Guard units,[15] the allocation of federal funds to the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard,[15] and other administrative responsibilities prescribed under 10 U.S.C. § 10503. The National Guard Bureau is headed by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau (CNGB), who is a four-star general[12] in the Army or Air Force and is a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The National Guard Bureau is headquartered in Arlington County, Virginia, and is a joint activity of the Department of Defense to conduct all the administrative matters pertaining to the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard. The chief is either an Army or an Air Force four-star general officer, and is the senior uniformed National Guard officer, and is a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In this capacity, he serves as a military adviser to the President, the Secretary of Defense, the National Security Council and is the Department of Defense's official channel of communication to the Governors and to State Adjutants General on all matters pertaining to the National Guard. He is responsible for ensuring that the more than half a million Army and Air National Guard personnel are accessible, capable, and ready to protect the homeland and to provide combat resources to the Army and the Air Force. He is appointed by the President in his capacity as Commander in Chief.[16][17] Constitutional basis[edit] The respective state National Guards are authorized by the Constitution of the United States. As originally drafted, the Constitution recognized the existing state militias, and gave them vital roles to fill: "to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasion." (Article I, Section 8, Clause 15). The Constitution distinguished "militias," which were state entities, from "Troops," which were unlawful for states to maintain without Congressional approval. (Article I, Section 10, Clause 3). Under current law, the respective state National Guards and the State Defense Forces are authorized by Congress to the states and are referred to as "troops." 32 U.S.C. § 109. Although originally state entities, the Constitutional "Militia of the Several States" were not entirely independent because they could be federalized. According to Article I, Section 8; Clause 15, the United States Congress is given the power to pass laws for "calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions." Congress is also empowered to come up with the guidelines "for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the Uni contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 69 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/National_Guard_of_the_United_States responseCode 3 200 