ugbkxgbowicaesdgoqjavkzckebapssayirgrgoa length 6 126649 page 10009 Formal act of quitting one's position For other uses, see Resignation (disambiguation). Resignation is the formal act of leaving or quitting one's office or position. A resignation can occur when a person holding a position gained by election or appointment steps down, but leaving a position upon the expiration of a term, or choosing not to seek an additional term, is not considered resignation. When an employee chooses to leave a position, it is considered a resignation, as opposed to involuntary termination. Whether an employee resigned or was terminated is sometimes a topic of dispute, because in many situations, a terminated employee is eligible for severance pay and/or unemployment benefits, whereas one who voluntarily resigns may not be eligible. Abdication is the equivalent of resignation for a reigning monarch, pope, or holder of another similar position. Political examples[edit] President Nixon's last farewell gesture after his resignation in 1974. A resignation is a personal decision to exit a position, though outside pressure exists in many cases. For example, Richard Nixon resigned from the office of President of the United States in August 1974 following the Watergate scandal, when he was almost certain to have been impeached by the United States Congress.[1] Deliberate manoeuvre[edit] Resignation can be used as a political manoeuvre, as in the Philippines in July 2005, when ten cabinet officials resigned en masse to pressure President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo to follow suit over allegations of electoral fraud. Arroyo's predecessor, Joseph Estrada, was successfully forced out of office during the EDSA Revolution of 2001 as he faced the first impeachment trial held in the country's history. In 1995, the British Prime Minister, John Major, resigned as Leader of the Conservative Party in order to contest a leadership election with the aim of silencing his critics within the party and reasserting his authority. Having resigned, he stood again and was re-elected. He continued to serve as prime minister until he was defeated in the 1997 elections. However, ascertaining whether an employee had an intent to resign depends on all the circumstances. As the Ontario Supreme Court noted, an employee's storming off may not legally be a resignation.[2] When criticised[edit] Although government officials may tender their resignations, they are not always accepted. This could be a gesture of confidence in the official, as with US President George W. Bush's refusal of his Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld's twice-offered resignation during the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal. However, refusing a resignation can be a method of severe censure if it is followed by dismissal; Alberto Fujimori attempted to resign as President of Peru, but his resignation was refused so that Congress could impeach him. Delivery[edit] For many public figures, primarily departing politicians, resignation is an opportunity to deliver a valedictory resignation speech in which they can elucidate the circumstances of their exit from office and in many cases deliver a powerful speech which often commands much attention. This can be used to great political effect, particularly as, subsequent to resigning, government ministers are no longer bound by collective responsibility and can speak with greater freedom about current issues.[citation needed] "Spending more time with family" is a common reason credited during public resignations,[3][4] especially as a euphemism when receding from scandal.[5] Other organisations[edit] In academia, a university president or the editor of a scientific journal may also resign, particularly in cases where an idea which runs counter to the mainstream is being promoted. In 2006, Harvard president Lawrence Summers resigned after making the provocative suggestion that the underrepresentation of female academics in math and science[6] could be due to factors other than sheer discrimination, such as personal inclination or innate ability. In a club, society, or other voluntary association, a member may resign from an officer position in that organization or even from the organization itself. In Robert's Rules of Order, this is called a request to be excused from a duty.[7] A resignation may also be withdrawn.[8] See also[edit] Lists of resignations Resignation from the British House of Commons Resignation from the United States Senate Request to be excused from a duty Resignation syndrome Dismissal (employment) § Forced resignations Letter of resignation References[edit] ^ "The Last Hours of the Nixon Presidency". history.com. Archived from the original on 2014-08-08. Retrieved 2018-02-14. ^ McKechnie, Dave (January 19, 2017). "Indignation Not Resignation: An Employee Storming off Does Not Mean She Is Quitting". Mondaq Business Briefing. Archived from the original on October 17, 2018. ^ Daly, Kerry (1996). Families & Time: Keeping Pace in a Hurried Culture. SAGE Publications. p. 117. ISBN 978-1-4522-4888-2. ^ Friedman, Stewart D.; Greenhaus, Jeffrey H. (2000). Work and Family--Allies or Enemies?: What Happens When Business Professionals Confront Life Choices. Oxford University Press. p. 152. ISBN 978-0-19-802725-6. ^ Smith, Nick (2014). Justice through Apologies: Remorse, Reform, and Punishment. Cambridge University Press. p. 29. ISBN 978-1-139-86730-6. ^ "Understanding current causes of women's underrepresentation in science". PNAS. 2011-02-22. Archived from the original on 2011-09-18. Retrieved 2018-10-03. ^ Robert, Henry M.; et al. (2011). Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised (11th ed.). Philadelphia, PA: Da Capo Press. pp. 289–292. ISBN 978-0-306-82020-5. (RONR) ^ "Frequently Asked Questions about RONR (Question 18)". The Official Robert's Rules of Order Web Site. The Robert's Rules Association. Archived from the original on 2018-12-24. Retrieved 2015-12-11. Further reading[edit] Look up resignation in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. "6 Questions to Ask Before You Quit". Vanna. Barclay, Theo (February 5, 2018). Fighters And Quitters: Great Political Resignations. London: Biteback Publishing. ISBN 9781785903540. Frenchwood, Fancy (December 13, 2014). The Perfect Resignation Letter: I Fired My Boss. Infinite Momentum. ISBN 978-0578154640. Kumar, Harbans Lal; Kumar, Gaurav (2009). Law Relating to Resignation and VRS. Delhi: Universal Law Pub. Co. ISBN 978-8175347304. The Bird of Wifdom (January 1, 1755) Remarks on the Resignation of a Noble Lord [A satire on John Perceval, Earl of Egmont] v t e Employment Classifications Academic tenure Casual Contingent work Full-time job Gig worker Job sharing Part-time job Self-employment Side job Skilled worker Journeyman Technician Independent contractor Labour hire Temporary work Laborer Wage labour Hiring Application Background check Business networking Cover letter Curriculum vitae Drug testing Employment contract Employment counsellor Executive search list Induction programme Job fair Job fraud Job hunting Job interview Letter of recommendation Onboarding Overqualification Person–environment fit Personality–job fit theory Probation Recruitment Résumé Simultaneous recruiting of new graduates Underemployment Work-at-home scheme Roles Cooperative Employee Employer Internship Job Labour hire Permanent employment Supervisor Volunteering Working class Blue-collar Green-collar Grey-collar Pink-collar Precariat White-collar Red-collar New-collar No-collar Orange-collar Scarlet-collar Black-collar Gold-collar Career and training Apprenticeship Artisan Master craftsman Avocation Career assessment Career counseling Career development Coaching Creative class Education Continuing education E-learning Employability Further education Graduate school Induction training Knowledge worker Licensure Lifelong learning Overspecialization Practice-based professional learning Professional association Professional certification Professional development Professional school Reflective practice Retraining Vocational education Vocational school Vocational university Mentorship Occupational Outlook Handbook Practice firm Profession Operator Professional Tradesman Vocation Attendance Break Career break Furlough Gap year Leave of absence Long service leave No call, no show Sabbatical Sick leave Time clock Schedules 35-hour workweek Four-day week Eight-hour day 996 working hour system Flextime On-call Overtime Remote work Retroactive overtime Six-hour day Shift work Working time Workweek and weekend Wages and salaries Income bracket Income tax Living wage Maximum wage National average salary World Europe Minimum wage Canada Hong Kong Europe United States Progressive wage Singapore Overtime rate Paid time off Performance-related pay Salary cap Wage compression Working poor Benefits Annual leave Casual Friday Child care Disability insurance Health insurance Life insurance Marriage leave Parental leave Pension Sick leave Take-home vehicle Safety and health Crunch Epilepsy and employment Human factors and ergonomics Karoshi List of countries by rate of fatal workplace accidents Occupational burnout Occupational disease Occupational exposure limit Occupational health psychology Occupational injury Occupational noise Occupational stress Personal protective equipment Repetitive strain injury Right to sit Sick building syndrome Work accident Occupational fatality Workers' compensation Workplace health promotion Workplace phobia Workplace wellness Equal opportunity Affirmative action Equal pay for equal work Gender pay gap Glass ceiling Infractions Corporate collapses and scandals Accounting scandals Control fraud Corporate behaviour Corporate crime Discrimination Exploitation of labour Dress code Employee handbook Employee monitoring Evaluation Labour law Sexual harassment Sleeping while on duty Wage theft Whistleblower Workplace bullying Workplace harassment Workplace incivility Willingness Boreout Careerism Civil conscription Conscription Critique of work Dead-end job Job satisfaction McJob Organizational com contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 40 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Resign responseCode 3 200 