uijobecsievshacenqtmemoqhipsuebeikykdkks length 6 170523 page 10007 Wikipedia help page explaining the watchlist feature "WP:W" redirects here. For the welcoming committee, see Wikipedia:Welcoming committee. For the W Award, see Wikipedia:W Awards. "WP:WATCH" redirects here. For the guideline about problematic words, see Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Words to watch. For WikiProject Watches, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Watches. This help page is a how-to guide. It details processes or procedures of some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, and may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts H:W WP:W Example of a watchlist A watchlist is a page which allows any logged-in user to maintain a list of "watched" pages and to generate a list of recent changes made to those pages (and their associated talk pages). In this way you can keep track of, and react to, what's happening to pages you have created or are otherwise interested in. By default, pages are kept permanently on a user's watchlist until such time as they choose to 'unwatch' them. However, various options also exist for temporarily watching pages, from periods between one week and one year. Effects of watchlisting a page Watching a page means that the recent changes made to it will show up on your watchlist (Special:Watchlist), as well as changes to its associated talk page. Actions affecting watched pages (page moves, page creations and deletions, protection) also appear in the watchlist. For example, if you watch a page that does not yet have a talk page, you will see on your watchlist when someone creates that talk page. If you watch a User: page, you will be notified on your watchlist if that user is blocked or has user permissions added or removed. If a page you have watched is moved to a new title, the new title will be automatically added to your watchlist. Even if the page is later moved back (and even if the page at the new title is deleted), the new title will remain in your watchlist along with the old one. If you notice mysterious nonexistent pages appearing on your list of watched pages, this is the most likely explanation. When you view Recent Changes, Enhanced Recent Changes or Related Changes, entries relating to pages you are watching appear in bold text. This means that it may be beneficial to mark pages as "watched" even if you do not intend on viewing the Special:Watchlist page. Privacy See also: Wikimedia:Privacy policy No user, not even administrators, can tell what is in your watchlist, or who is watching any particular page. Publicly available database dumps do not include this information either. However, developers who have access to the servers that hold the Wikipedia database can obtain this information. Number of watchers For any particular page, it is possible to discover how many users have it on their watchlist. Under the Tools panel of the left sidebar go to Page information where "Number of page watchers" is shown. If the number is less than 30 it is displayed only to administrators for reasons of privacy and security. Email notification Main page: Help:Email notification Watching a page allows you to receive email notification of changes to it. To enable this feature, select "Email me when a page or file on my watchlist is changed" at the bottom of the User Profile tab in Special:Preferences. (Currently, it is not possible to limit email notifications by page – you will receive notification when any page on your watchlist is changed.) RSS feed Main page: Wikipedia:Syndication You can also monitor your watchlist via RSS (RSS feed when logged in). You can also monitor your watchlist via RSS when logged out – see Wikipedia:Syndication § Watchlist feed with token. Controlling which pages are watched This screenshot shows a page that is not on the watchlist of the user. Clicking on the star will add it to the watchlist. The star on this page is blue to indicate that it is on the watchlist of the user. There are four ways to control which pages you have on your watchlist: Tab at top of page: When viewing a page, click the star symbol between the 'View history' tab and the search box at the very top of the page, to respectively add or remove the page from your watchlist.[1] Note that the star symbol is available in the default website design ("skin"); in other skins, the tab says "watch" or "unwatch". Watching pages that don't exist: You can watch a page even if neither the content page nor the talk page exists, enabling you to be alerted if either the content page or the talk page is created. To do that, go to the page's URL, either by typing the URL directly or following a (broken) link, and then press "Watch" (depending on the skin you may have to press Cancel first). Option at bottom of edit box: When editing a page, check or uncheck "Watch this page" before saving (above the 'Show preview' button). Edit entire watchlist: Click "Edit your list of watched pages" button at the top of the watchlist page to view or alter the list of watched pages directly. The first option takes you to Special:Watchlist/edit, where the watched pages are listed with checkboxes which can be used to remove items. The second takes you to Special:Watchlist/raw, which has a text area with a list of watched pages, one title per line, sorted by namespace number and then alphabetically. You can edit the list directly, copy it to an external editor or replace it with a list created elsewhere. Duplicates are automatically removed on saving. In the list, redlinked (non-existent) pages are still watched, as are their talk pages, and this applies to subpages and their talk pages. When you click watch (star) on, for example, a User Talk: page, the link is canonicalized to User: in the list. Popups gadget: If you have the popups gadget enabled, you can use it to watch or unwatch a linked page without having to view it. If you check "Add pages I edit to my watchlist" on the "Watchlist" tab of your user preferences, then the "Watch this page" checkbox will always be checked by default when you edit pages. Other similar options are "Add pages I create to my watchlist", "Add pages I move to my watchlist", and (for administrators) "Add pages I delete to my watchlist". Twinkle has the option to automatically add articles it's used on to your watchlist (including PROD nominations, XfD nominations and reverts). To change these settings, go to Wikipedia:Twinkle/Preferences. It should also be noted that: Because no one owns any article, there is no requirement to watch articles you have created or contributed to, so you are not expected to check to see whether the content has been vandalised, challenged (e.g., for lack of sources), discussed on the article's talk page, and so forth. The only page you are expected to keep an eye on is your own talk page. Talk pages are not listed at Special:Watchlist/edit or Special:Watchlist/raw, but they are automatically watched whenever their corresponding non-talk pages are watched. Additional page titles may sometimes appear on your watchlist as a result of page moves. Temporarily watching pages Further information: mw:Help:Watchlist expiry A new watchlist feature (Watchlist Expiry) was introduced in 2020. It enables users to optionally select to watch a page only for a limited period of time. (1 week, 1, 3 or 6 months, or 1 year). This is done by clicking the hollow blue star icon and selecting the preferred time period in the dropdown which then appears. Once the chosen watch period has expired, the page is automatically removed from your watchlist. You can alter the watch period at any time, including switching from temporary to permanent watching, or unwatching completely at any time. Temporarily watched pages are usually represented by a half-filled blue star icon (as opposed to a fully-filled blue star, which represents a permanently watched page). If you simply want to permanently watch a page as usual, you do not need to change any of your current processes. Clearing the watchlist To remove all entries in the watchlist click on Clear the watchlist. You will be prompted to confirm your selection. Once confirmed, all entries will be removed from your watchlist. There is no way to reverse this action. You may want to back up your watchlist locally by copying all of the lines from the raw watchlist to a file before clearing. Limitations Special pages: It is not possible to watch automatically generated pages, such as Special pages. Category membership: Watching a category page will pick up changes to the text of the category page itself. If "Hide categorization of pages" is disabled at Special:Preferences § mw-prefsection-watchlist, or "page categorization" is unchecked after "Hide:" on the watchlist, then it will also show pages being added or removed from the category. However, it will not report changes to subcategories or member pages contained in the category. Transcluded text: When a watched page contains transcluded text, such as templates, the form of the page may change as a result of changes to the transcluded pages. These changes will not show up on your watchlist unless you are watching the transcluded pages as well. Sections: It is not possible to watch just a part or section of a page. However, for talk pages, it is possible, though not through the watchlist, to subscribe to receive notifications for changes to sections. Other wikis: It is not possible to receive watchlist notices on the English Wikipedia for changes made to pages watchlisted on other Wikipedia languages or Wikimedia wikis. See Wikipedia:Global watchlist for work on this. How to read a watchlist (or recent changes) Legend (help): D Edit made at Wikidata r Edit flagged by ORES N New page m Minor edit b Bot edit (±123) Page byte size change The legend shows at the top right of the watchlist When you are logged in to Wikipedia, a link, Watchlist, appears at the top of every page. This links to the special page Special:Watchlist, reporting recent  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Watchlist responseCode 3 200 