uirolggqeiseyqkayeloqssidiwkeitiueusdigk length 6 273480 page 10007 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Did you know... 31 July 2022 12:00, 31 July 2022 (UTC) Flag of Azerbaijan ... that the blue stripe in the Azerbaijani flag (pictured) reflects the country's Turkic heritage? ... that Vivien Lyra Blair's performance was deemed "just absurd" in the Netflix film We Can Be Heroes? ... that although Mayu Island has an area of less than one square kilometer (0.4 sq mi), it has two different temples honoring the same goddess? ... that after Keri Blakinger left Cornell University to serve time in prison for possession of heroin, she returned to finish her degree and then became a criminal justice reporter? ... that although Leah Kate's single "10 Things I Hate About You" shares the same name as the 1999 movie, she said that she did not use it as inspiration for the song? ... that Redcliffe railway station has been renamed twice since 2016? ... that Royal Navy boy seaman Alf Lowe was awarded the Albert Medal for Lifesaving for his actions during a 1948 sinking that killed 29 men? ... that the first meeting of the New Zealand Women Writers' Society was chaired by a man? 00:00, 31 July 2022 (UTC) Apollo spacecraft inertial measurement unit ... that Paul Blasingame was a member of the "inertial mafia", who advocated the use of inertial navigation systems, and he oversaw the development of the one used by the Apollo spacecraft (pictured)? ... that music from Mariah Carey, Sheena Easton, and Whitney Houston was the inspiration for the concert residency Reflections? ... that the ceramicist Sandy Brown wanted her sculpture Earth Goddess to be "female and making an impact"? ... that Phil Elverum recorded Don't Wake Me Up nocturnally, while "drinking pots of black tea all night"? ... that Argentinian Ricardo D. Eliçabe qualified as a physician, co-founded a petroleum refinery, and wrote about forgeries of Bolivia's first stamps? ... that the book Love Falls On Us, about the LGBTQ movement in Africa, was praised by author Uzodinma Iweala for "elevating the extraordinary ordinariness of L.G.B.T.Q. Africans"? ... that Garretson, South Dakota, was named after businessman Arthur Samuel Garretson? ... that the plot of Fast and Feel Love involves a character competing to become the fastest cup-stacking competitor in the world? 30 July 2022 12:00, 30 July 2022 (UTC) Margrethe Parm ... that in 1946, Margrethe Parm (pictured) was appointed the director of a women's prison that had been used as a political prison during the German occupation of Norway? ... that Garsa Fwip's portrayer, Jennifer Beals, did not know what series she was part of when she arrived on set? ... that Portunus segnis was one of the earliest Lessepsian migrants to the Mediterranean, being first recorded in 1898 at Port Said? ... that R. B. Schlather directed the world premiere of Hertzberg's chamber opera The Rose Elf in Brooklyn, as well as Cimarosa's L'Italiana in Londra and Puccini's Madama Butterfly at the Oper Frankfurt? ... that after Lew Dickey Sr. broke into the radio business by buying a station in West Virginia, his son would go on to own Cumulus Media? ... that Russian scientist Dmitry Kolker was arrested on charges of espionage while being treated for terminal cancer at a hospital and flown to Moscow, dying two days later? ... that a Space Forge satellite is scheduled to fly on the first-ever satellite launch from the United Kingdom? ... that mathematics professor Ari Nagel has fathered more than a hundred children? 00:00, 30 July 2022 (UTC) Flag of Sint Maarten ... that the flag of Sint Maarten (pictured) depicts the friendship monument delineating the boundary between the Dutch and French sections of the island? ... that Margot Sponer used her international network of contacts to help people escape persecution in Nazi Germany? ... that the 37-metre-long (121 ft) Burnham Pier is sometimes described as the United Kingdom's shortest? ... that Louis Weinstein, a pioneer in infectious disease treatment, funded his education by working as a jazz violinist? ... that Rust has been named the "most loved programming language" every year for seven years since 2016 by annual surveys conducted by Stack Overflow? ... that Heather Baron-Gracie of the band Pale Waves likened the music video for their song "Jealousy" to a "Helmet Lang or Calvin Klein advert"? ... that Matthew Tye uploaded a YouTube video about leaving China after hearing that members of the local public security bureau had shown his photograph in bars frequented by foreigners? ... that the presentation of Inuit fashion items made from sealskin at contemporary art exhibition Floe Edge was called "an upraised Inuit middle finger" to anti–seal hunting activists? 29 July 2022 12:00, 29 July 2022 (UTC) Pyramid of Khentkaus I ... that an inscription uncovered at the Pyramid of Khentkaus I (pictured), identifies Khentkaus I as the mother of two kings, or perhaps the mother of one and a king herself? ... that Canadian paediatrician Gladys Boyd was one of the first physicians to treat diabetic children with insulin? ... that Jerome Robbins's final ballet, Brandenburg, set to excerpts from Bach's Brandenburg Concertos, is likened to a kaleidoscope? ... that Athanasius Safar, a Syriac Catholic bishop from the Ottoman Empire, left Europe for Mexico in 1689? ... that following the ban of its labour unions in 1934, the Romanian United Socialist Party would rely on its youth and women's wings for political action? ... that the Clements twins have an estimated revenue of almost US$6000 per Instagram post? ... that the Japanese manga series Heart Gear sells three times better in France than in Japan? ... that the name of the Indian city Bangalore could be derived from a Kannada word meaning 'town of boiled beans'? 00:00, 29 July 2022 (UTC) Alexander Caulfield Anderson ... that Alexander Caulfield Anderson (pictured) was the first European to widen and use the Naches Pass? ... that Olivia Rodrigo and Dan Nigro wrote the song "Deja Vu" within one day? ... that Anita Rivas, an Ecuadorian mayor, visited the United Kingdom and offered to stop oil drilling in a rainforest in Yasuní National Park? ... that the mission of the United Nations special envoy on Myanmar has been called a "diplomatic graveyard"? ... that Robert Byron Tabor's first major painting was put on display in the White House by Franklin D. Roosevelt and his wife? ... that there are nearly 100 carillons in Belgium, two of which are in the same building? ... that the Deutsches Romantik-Museum in Frankfurt, the only museum dedicated to the entire era of German Romanticism, looks like three houses and features blue elements? ... that Robert M. Blizzard, who pioneered growth hormone therapy in children, liked to joke that he had added 11 miles (18 km) to the height of the U.S. population? 28 July 2022 12:00, 28 July 2022 (UTC) Cabeza de Juárez ... that the head on top of the Museo Cabeza de Juárez (pictured) inspired the pictogram of Guelatao metro station? ... that Isabel Darlington was the first woman lawyer in Chester County, Pennsylvania, and the only woman practicing law there for 45 years? ... that organist Jehan Alain's Messe modale en septuor was written for a septet of soprano, alto, flute and string quartet? ... that Angéline de Montbrun by Laure Conan is the first psychological novel written by a French Canadian? ... that while Marvel Comics originally designated the main reality depicted in the MCU multiverse as Earth-199999, Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness established it as Earth-616? ... that Rod Zaine scored his high school's championship-winning single in Canadian football contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 70 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2022/July responseCode 3 200 