uitcgcmoyckchasotsweuoggaoaskmucmeygzowc length 6 115372 page 8554 Area of mathematics Mathematics Areas Number theory Geometry Algebra Calculus and analysis Discrete mathematics Logic and set theory Probability Statistics and decision sciences Relationship with sciences Physics Chemistry Geosciences Computation Biology Linguistics Economics Philosophy Education Portal v t e A black and white rendition of the Yale Babylonian Collection's Tablet YBC 7289 (c. 1800–1600 BCE), showing a Babylonian approximation to the square root of 2 (1 24 51 10 w: sexagesimal) in the context of Pythagoras' Theorem for an isosceles triangle. The tablet also gives an example where one side of the square is 30, and the resulting diagonal is 42 25 35 or 42.4263888. Computational mathematics is an area of mathematics devoted to the interaction between mathematics and computer computation.[1] A large part of computational mathematics consists roughly of using mathematics for allowing and improving computer computation in areas of science and engineering where mathematics are useful. This involves in particular algorithm design, computational complexity, numerical methods and computer algebra. Computational mathematics refers also to the use of computers for mathematics itself. This includes mathematical experimentation for establishing conjectures (particularly in number theory), the use of computers for proving theorems (for example the four color theorem), and the design and use of proof assistants. Areas of computational mathematics[edit] Computational mathematics emerged as a distinct part of applied mathematics by the early 1950s. Currently, computational mathematics can refer to or include: Computational science, also known as scientific computation or computational engineering Solving mathematical problems by computer simulation as opposed to analytic methods of applied mathematics Numerical methods used in scientific computation, for example numerical linear algebra and numerical solution of partial differential equations Stochastic methods,[2] such as Monte Carlo methods and other representations of uncertainty in scientific computation The mathematics of scientific computation,[3][4] in particular numerical analysis, the theory of numerical methods Computational complexity Computer algebra and computer algebra systems Computer-assisted research in various areas of mathematics, such as logic (automated theorem proving), discrete mathematics, combinatorics, number theory, and computational algebraic topology Cryptography and computer security, which involve, in particular, research on primality testing, factorization, elliptic curves, and mathematics of blockchain Computational linguistics, the use of mathematical and computer techniques in natural languages Computational algebraic geometry Computational group theory Computational geometry Computational number theory Computational topology Computational statistics Algorithmic information theory Algorithmic game theory Mathematical economics, the use of mathematics in economics, finance and, to certain extents, of accounting. Experimental mathematics See also[edit] Mathematics portal References[edit] ^ National Science Foundation, Division of Mathematical Science, Program description PD 06-888 Computational Mathematics, 2006. Retrieved April 2007. ^ "NSF Seeks Proposals on Stochastic Systems". SIAM News. August 19, 2005. Archived from the original on February 5, 2012. Retrieved February 2, 2015. ^ Future Directions in Computational Mathematics, Algorithms, and Scientific Software, Report of panel chaired by R. Rheinbold, 1985. Distributed by SIAM. ^ Mathematics of Computation, Journal overview. Retrieved April 2007. Further reading[edit] Cucker, F. (2003). Foundations of Computational Mathematics: Special Volume. Handbook of Numerical Analysis. North-Holland Publishing. ISBN 978-0-444-51247-5. Harris, J. W.; Stocker, H. (1998). Handbook of Mathematics and Computational Science. Springer-Verlag. ISBN 978-0-387-94746-4. Hartmann, A.K. (2009). Practical Guide to Computer Simulations. World Scientific. ISBN 978-981-283-415-7. Archived from the original on February 11, 2009. Retrieved May 3, 2012. Nonweiler, T. R. (1986). Computational Mathematics: An Introduction to Numerical Approximation. John Wiley and Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-20260-9. Gentle, J. E. (2007). Foundations of Computational Science. Springer-Verlag. ISBN 978-0-387-00450-1. White, R. E. (2003). Computational Mathematics: Models, Methods, and Analysis with MATLAB. Chapman and Hall. ISBN 978-1584883647. Yang, X. S. (2008). Introduction to Computational Mathematics. World Scientific. ISBN 978-9812818171. Strang, G. (2007). Computational Science and Engineering. Wiley. ISBN 978-0961408817. External links[edit] Foundations of Computational Mathematics, a non-profit organization International Journal of Computer Discovered Mathematics v t e Major mathematics areas History Timeline Future Outline Lists Glossary Foundations Category theory Information theory Mathematical logic Philosophy of mathematics Set theory Type theory Algebra Abstract Commutative Elementary Group theory Linear Multilinear Universal Homological Analysis Calculus Real analysis Complex analysis Hypercomplex analysis Differential equations Functional analysis Harmonic analysis Measure theory Discrete Combinatorics Graph theory Order theory Geometry Algebraic Analytic Arithmetic Differential Discrete Euclidean Finite Number theory Arithmetic Algebraic number theory Analytic number theory Diophantine geometry Topology General Algebraic Differential Geometric Homotopy theory Applied Engineering mathematics Mathematical biology Mathematical chemistry Mathematical economics Mathematical finance Mathematical physics Mathematical psychology Mathematical sociology Mathematical statistics Probability Statistics Systems science Control theory Game theory Operations research Computational Computer science Theory of computation Computational complexity theory Numerical analysis Optimization Computer algebra Related topics Mathematicians lists Informal mathematics Films about mathematicians Recreational mathematics Mathematics and art Mathematics education Mathematics portal Category Commons WikiProject v t e Industrial and applied mathematics Computational Algorithms design analysis Automata theory Automated theorem proving Coding theory Computational geometry Constraint satisfaction Constraint programming Computational logic Cryptography Information theory Discrete Computer algebra Computational number theory Combinatorics Graph theory Discrete geometry Analysis Approximation theory Clifford analysis Clifford algebra Differential equations Ordinary differential equations Partial differential equations Stochastic differential equations Differential geometry Differential forms Gauge theory Geometric analysis Dynamical systems Chaos theory Control theory Functional analysis Operator algebra Operator theory Harmonic analysis Fourier analysis Multilinear algebra Exterior Geometric Tensor Vector Multivariable calculus Exterior Geometric Tensor Vector Numerical analysis Numerical linear algebra Numerical methods for ordinary differential equations Numerical methods for partial differential equations Validated numerics Variational calculus Probability theory Distributions (random variables) Stochastic processes / analysis Path integral Stochastic variational calculus Mathematical physics Analytical mechanics Lagrangian Hamiltonian Field theory Classical Conformal Effective Gauge Quantum Statistical Topological Perturbation theory in quantum mechanics Potential theory String theory Bosonic Topological Supersymmetry Supersymmetric quantum mechanics Supersymmetric theory of stochastic dynamics Algebraic structures Algebra of physical space Feynman integral Poisson algebra Quantum group Renormalization group Representation theory Spacetime algebra Superalgebra Supersymmetry algebra Decision sciences Game theory Operations research Optimization Social choice theory Statistics Mathematical economics Mathematical finance Other applications Biology Chemistry Psychology Sociology "The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences" Related Mathematics Mathematical software Organizations Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics Japan Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics Société de Mathématiques Appliquées et Industrielles International Council for Industrial and Applied Mathematics European Community on Computational Methods in Applied Sciences Category Mathematics portal / outline / topics list contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Computational_mathematics responseCode 3 200 