uiweicjghiikogfcqqsepohojeaiwkwiqcckqgpc length 6 149531 page 10008 "WP:VOLUNTEER" redirects here. For the VRT information page, see Wikipedia:Volunteer Response Team. For information on the administrative structure of Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Administration. This is an explanatory essay about Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not. This page is intended to provide additional information about concepts in the page(s) it supplements. This page is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, as it has not been thoroughly vetted by the community. Shortcut WP:VOLUNTEER Explanatory essay about Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not This page in a nutshell: The editors on Wikipedia are mainly volunteers. Editors can contribute as much as they want, and for however long they desire. Wikipedia is a volunteer service. But, what exactly does this mean? Almost all contributions are made in the free time of their contributors. There are no set crews or teams working on articles on any topic, just those who come along and volunteer information at any time they wish. You are never required to take any action or post any edit that you personally disagree with. Even if there is a clear consensus against your view, the most you can be required to do is to let others take the actions that they support. Anyone can take a break for any period of time or drop out whenever they like. You can always stop working on one group of articles, take up working on another for a while, then resume the previous one, with no expectations from others. You have the right to quit and never return, and in most cases to vanish—no questions asked, no explanation needed. There is no minimum or maximum anyone can contribute. There is no deadline. Reasons why one may not be editing[edit] There are various reasons why one does not immediately improve pages to meet certain standards, or even to prevent deletion. If an editor states an intention to make an improvement that will take more time, this should be respected. Researching an important topic Researching topic[edit] Shortcuts WP:RESEARCHING WP:LOOKING WP:STUDY Sometimes, an improvement will require time for researching information on the topic at hand. This may include finding and studying books, newspapers, journals, or websites, choosing the most appropriate sources, or summarizing material in encyclopedic form. Rome was not built in a day; neither is Wikipedia. Other Wikipedia activities[edit] Shortcut WP:OWA Many editors are busy with creating or editing a series of articles or other materials, or making other improvements to Wikipedia. Others are happier working in behind-the-scenes areas of the project, such as removing vandalism. An unrelated matter may have to wait. Busy life[edit] Shortcuts WP:BUSY WP:BUSYLIFE WP:OBLIGATION Some editors have other hobbies ... ... or work that must take priority Some people may be dedicated to Wikipedia as their number one cause in life. For most editors, however, editing Wikipedia is akin to a hobby that ranks lower in personal importance than editors' personal lives and their employment, family, health and other factors. Real life usually takes priority over editing Wikipedia. Because Wikipedia is completely voluntary, under no circumstances are editors obliged or expected to make any edits, respond to any messages, or to otherwise have any involvement. Please don't presume you have offended a fellow editor who has not responded to your message, or that they are insulting you: assume good faith and remember life may be complicated. By drawing negative inferences from their lack of editing, you might be making it less attractive for them to productively contribute to the project in the future. Stress[edit] Sometimes Wikipedia can be stressful. When this happens, sometimes the best thing to do is take a break. If you're not enjoying editing, then it is time to take a break – don't be a wikipediholic. Remember, if things don't go your way, it's not the end of the world. Play[edit] Editing Wikipedia is a labour of love, and each editor, more often than not, has more than one hobby or activity competing for their available bandwidth. How an editor chooses to manage their available bandwidth, with respect to time allocation, is entirely up to them. An editor may find themselves editing for hours each day. An editor’s involvement may be sporadic and only transpire when the mood strikes. A healthy "editing-life" balance is fundamentally important. This balance looks different for each individual and is subject to change at any time. For example, an editor who has, for the last several years, been spending an average of 10 hours each week editing Wikipedia, may discover a new hobby they wish to dedicate those 10 hours to. Or, perhaps the unexpected onset of a competing priority(s) takes precedent of an individual’s time. The key takeaway remains the same: Each Wikipedia editor is a volunteer, and it is their collective effort that allows for this model to work. Everyone pitches in when and how they see fit, so long as their efforts are in accordance with the terms and conditions of volunteering their services. Caveats and exceptions[edit] "WP:MESS" redirects here. For the humorous essays, see Wikipedia:Mess with the templates and Wikipedia:Don't mess with Jimbo's Angels. Shortcut WP:MESS Administrators and other users with advanced permissions are generally expected to maintain a minimum level of activity and be available to account for their actions, or to resign the tools. Editors sometimes question whether users who disappear suddenly after being brought to ANI may be trying to evade scrutiny ("ANI flu") Many editors subscribe to a "clean up your own mess" philosophy, whereby experienced editors who make errors with fallout are expected to participate in the cleanup of those errors. See also[edit] Wikipedia:Don't demand that editors solve the problems they identify Wikipedia:Editing on mobile devices v t e Wikipedia essays (?) Essays on building, editing, and deleting content Philosophy Article content Articles must be written All Five Pillars are equally important Avoid vague introductions Be a reliable source Civil POV pushing Cohesion Competence is required Concede lost arguments Dissent is not disloyalty Don't lie Don't search for objections Editing Wikipedia is like visiting a foreign country Editors will sometimes be wrong Eight simple rules for editing our encyclopedia Explanationism External criticism of Wikipedia Here to build an encyclopedia Leave it to the experienced Levels of competence Most ideas are bad Need Neutrality of sources Not editing because of Wikipedia restriction The one question Oversimplification Paradoxes Paraphrasing POV and OR from editors, sources, and fields Process is important Product, process, policy Purpose Reasonability rule Systemic bias There is no seniority Ten Simple Rules for Editing Wikipedia Tendentious editing The role of policies in collaborative anarchy The rules are principles Trifecta Wikipedia in brief Wikipedia is an encyclopedia Wikipedia is a community Wikipedia is not RationalWiki Article construction 100K featured articles Abandoned stubs Acronym overkill Adding images improves the encyclopedia Advanced article editing Advanced text formatting Akin's Laws of Article Writing Alternatives to the "Expand" template Amnesia test A navbox on every page An unfinished house is a real problem Articles have a half-life Autosizing images Avoid mission statements Be neutral in form Beef up that first revision Blind men and an elephant BOLD, revert, discuss cycle Build content to endure Cherrypicking Chesterton's fence Children's lit, adult new readers, & large-print books Citation overkill Citation underkill Common-style fallacy Concept cloud Creating controversial content Criticisms of society may be consistent with NPOV and reliability Deprecated sources Dictionaries as sources Don't demolish the house while it's still being built Don't get hung up on minor details Don't hope the house will build itself Don't panic Don't "teach the controversy" Editing on mobile devices Editors are not mindreaders Encourage the newcomers Endorsements (commercial) Featured articles may have problems Formatting bilateral relations articles Formatting bilateral relations templates Fruit of the poisonous tree Give an article a chance How to write a featured article Identifying and using independent sources History sources Law sources Primary sources Science sources Style guides Tertiary sources Ignore STRONGNAT for date formats Inaccuracy Introduction to structurism Mine a source Merge Test Minors and persons judged incompetent "Murder of" articles Not every story/event/disaster needs a biography Not everything needs a navbox Not everything needs a template Nothing is in stone Obtain peer review comments Organizing disambiguation pages by subject area Permastub Potential, not just current state Presentism Principle of Some Astonishment The problem with elegant variation Pro and con lists Printability Pruning article revisions Publicists Put a little effort into it Restoring part of a reverted edit Robotic editing Sham consensus Source your plot summaries Specialized-style fallacy Stub Makers Run an edit-a-thon Temporary versions of articles Tertiary-source fallacy There are no shortcuts to neutrality There is no deadline There is a deadline The deadline is now Try not to leave it a stub Understanding Wikipedia's content standards Walled garden What an article should not include Wikipedia is a work in progress Wikipedia is not a reliable source Wikipedia is not being written in an organized fashion The world will not end tomorrow Write the article first Writing better articles Writing article content Avoid thread mode Copyediting reception sections Coup Gender-neutral language Myth vs fiction Proseline Use our own words We shouldn't be able to figure out your opinions Write the article first Writing about women Writing better articles Removing or deleting content Adjectives in your recommendations AfD is not a war  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 76 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Wikipedia_is_a_volunteer_service responseCode 3 200 