uizidsbgykugxmbmlaiipsoisgxcjiagaeyctswa length 6 538609 page 10044 In memory of the victims of the 2019 Kyoto Animation fire. Never forget Lugo! I'm just a lonely Wikipedian from Batangas City, Philippines who is a new-page patroller and occasional grammar-fixer who mainly asks different kinds of questions on the Reference desk, with topics ranging from the Super Bowl to Anime, from Japanese singers to secretive buildings. Happy editing! –Narutolovehinata5 (talk · contributions · edit info) Userboxes Personal Information Caption This user comes from the Philippines. en This user is a native speaker of the English language. tl-3 Ang tagagamit na ito ay nakakapag-ambag ng Tagalog sa mataas na antas. ja-1 この利用者は初級の日本語ができます。 C This user can program in C. C++ This user can program in C++. BASIC This user can program in BASIC. vb This user is a Visual Basic programmer. rb-1 This user is a beginning Ruby programmer. py-1 This user is a beginning Python programmer. its & it's This user understands the difference between its and it's. So should you. math-2 This user can contribute with intermediate mathematical skills. ♂ This contributor to Wikipedia is male. This user is an Aquarius. B This user's favourite colour is Blue. This user is right-handed. This user's blood type is B. B This user is straight. Taas noong nag-aaral / nakapagtapos mula sa Unibersidad ng Pilipinas. This user is a member of the Boy Scouts of the Philippines. This user splits his or her time between Batangas City and Quezon City. Interests and beliefs Caption This user is interested in history. This user is interested in Ancient Egypt. This user is interested in ancient Rome. This user is interested in Japanese history. This user is interested in the History of the Philippines C This user is a Roman Catholic. respect This user respects others' religions and realises not all people wish to follow the same path. This user is interested in politics. This user enjoys reading non-fiction. This user is interested in science. This user is interested in astronomy. This user has memorized the elements' names and symbols. ?met? This user prefers metric units and cannot figure out why Americans and Brits have such a hard time with them. This user is interested in aviation. This user is a Boeing 747 fan. This user is a Boeing 787 Dreamliner fan. This user is a Airbus A380 fan. This user has no interest in ever learning to fly! Countries Caption This user is interested in Japan. This user is interested in North Korea. 16 This user has visited 16 of the 208 countries in the world. This user has visited the United States of America. This user has visited Hong Kong. This user has visited China. This user has visited Singapore. This user has visited France. This user has visited Italy. This user has visited the Vatican City. This user has visited Spain. This user has visited Germany. This user has visited Japan. This user has visited Indonesia. This user has visited South Korea. This user has visited Malaysia. This user has visited Cambodia. This user has visited Thailand. This user has visited Vietnam. This user would like to visit Czech Republic. This user would like to visit United Kingdom. This user would like to visit Australia. This user would like to visit Canada. This user would like to visit Egypt. This user would like to visit Brazil. This user would like to visit North Korea. Wikipedia-related Caption This user has rollback and pending changes reviewer rights on the English Wikipedia. (verify) This user has page mover rights on the English Wikipedia. (verify) 40,000+ This user has made more than 40,000 contributions to Wikipedia. This user has been on Wikipedia for 15 years, 5 months and 7 days. J This user trusts Jimbo. The English Wikipedia has 6,748,155 articles. 239 This user has created 239 of Wikipedia's 6,748,155 articles. This user scored 105 on the Wikipediholic test. Wikipedia Sinusuportahan ko ang Wikipedia sa Tagalog sa pamamagitan ng aking mga kontribusyon. I support the Tagalog language Wikipedia with my contributions. This user has a userpage on Wikimedia Commons. This user is a member of WikiProject Anime and manga. This user participates in WikiProject Japan. This user helps with Did you know. talk | suggest | prep area | rules | Purge We are the champions, my friends, and we'll keep on fighting 'till the end... This user tries to do the right thing. If they make a mistake, please let them know. ~~~~ Narutolovehinata5 signs his posts and thinks you should too! vn This user page has been vandalized. WTF? This user ALWAYS TRIES to leave an edit summary Wikipedia is not censored. This user respects copyright, but sometimes it can be a major pain. This user's contributions are dual licensed under Wikipedia's copyright terms and Creative Commons BY-SA v2.5. This user believes that articles are useless without images. ? This user wants to become an administrator, but doesn't have the courage to nominate himself. ? This user is nowhere near being an Administrator. +approx. 8200 This user is watching over approx. 8200 pages. This user constantly uses the Reference desk. Were this user to act in a foolish, trollish, or dickish way, they are open to being slapped with a large trout. This user contributes using Google Chrome. This user prefers Windows, but still sees the advantages of Macs. This user contributes using Windows 10. This user's smartphone is powered by Android. This user's favorite article is Main Page. WebCite This user believes in archiving sources to prevent link rot. This user uses the "Show preview" button so as to avoid making a great number of useless, successive edits. vanity This user supports the removal of vanity pages with extreme prejudice. This user absolutely hates redirects and has to fix any one he sees. NPOV This user gets quite annoyed when they see POV in the mainspace. WP:RS This user believes in using Reliable Sources. linkspam This user despises linkspam, and will terminate it on sight, as well as any other spam by the contributor. This user encourages the peaceful correction of vandals. This user believes that anyone who thinks Wikipedia is an unreliable source should continue their quest to find a better website. 112+ This user has made more than 112 reports to Administrator intervention against vandalism. 53+ This user has made more than 53 reports to Requests for page protection. This user likes to steal wikimarkup code for use on their own userpage. Dislikes Caption Spoiler Warning! This user hates seeing Spoiler warnings. trivia This user hates trivia sections in articles. band-0 This user can't stand Justin Bieber. band-0 This user can't stand Rebecca Black. band-0 This user can't stand Kesha. band-0 This user can't stand Carly Rae Jepsen. fan-1 This user dislikes the TV show Ginban Kaleidoscope. Favorite sports teams Caption LAL This user is a fan of the Los Angeles Lakers. MIA This user is a fan of the Miami Heat. CHI This user is a fan of the Chicago Bulls. GSW This user is a fan of the Golden State Warriors TNT This user swears allegiance to the TNT Nation. This user is a fan of Scuderia Ferrari This user is still a fan of Brawn GP, and misses it very much. MU FC This user supports Manchester United F.C. MAN UTD FCB This user supports FC Barcelona. GB This user is a fan of the Green Bay Packers BAL This user is a fan of the Baltimore Ravens Games Caption This user is a Pokémon fan. This user once loved Grand Theft Auto. SC3K This user enjoys playing SimCity 3000 or SimCity 3000 Unlimited. SC4 This user's city is much better than Defacto's. MC This user plays Minecraft. This user is a fan of VisualArt's/Key. This user uses Steam for digital distribution. Music Caption This user plays the piano. This user enjoys pop music. This user enjoys rock music. This user enjoys electronic music. fan-3 This user loves Mami Kawada. fan-3 This user loves LiSA (Japanese musician, born 1987). fan-3 This user loves Kotoko (musician). fan-3 This user loves Maon Kurosaki. fan-3 This user loves Eir Aoi. fan-3 This user loves Konomi Suzuki. song-3 This user's favorite song is "triangle" by Mami Kawada. song-3 This user's favorite song is "crossing field" by LiSA. song-3 This user's favorite song is "Connect (song)" by ClariS. song-3 This user's favorite song is "Joint (song)" by Mami Kawada. song-3 This user's favorite song is "Magia (Kalafina song)" by Kalafina. song-3 This user's favorite song is "Light colors" by Lia (singer). song-3 This user's favorite song is "Bōken Desho Desho?" by Aya Hirano. fan-2 This user likes ClariS. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Kalafina. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes I've Sound. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Lia (singer). </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Aya Hirano. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Move (Japanese band). </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Haruka Tomatsu. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Garnidelia. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Asami Imai. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes fripSide. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes May'n. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Machico (singer). </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes ChouCho. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Nagi Yanagi. </noinclude> fan-2 This user likes Shiena Nishizawa. </noinclude> song-2 This user likes the song "A Cruel Angel's Thesis" by Yoko Takahashi. song-2 This user likes the song "My Soul, Your Beats!" by Lia (singer). song-2 This user likes the song "Re-sublimity" by Kotoko (musician). song-2 This user likes the song "Hayate no Gotoku! (song)" by Kotoko (musician). song-2 This user likes the song "Tori no Uta" by Lia (singer). song-2 This user likes the song "Kimi no Shiranai Monogatari" by Supercell (band). song-2 This user likes the song "Only my railgun" by fripSide. song-2 This user likes the song "God knows..." by Aya Hirano. song-2 This user likes the song "Philosphyz" by NanosizeMir. song-2 This user likes the song "Yume Sekai" by Haruka Tomatsu. song-2 This user likes the song "Secret Base ~Kimi ga Kureta Mono~ (10 years after Ver.)" by Ai Kayano, contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/User:Narutolovehinata5 responseCode 3 200 