ukgcnqjsjaeojczorakmycacqczglaciakmorabm page 10099 Postdoctoral degree Habilitation is the highest university degree, or the procedure by which it is achieved, in many European and non-English-speaking countries. The candidate fulfills a university's set criteria of excellence in research, teaching and further education, usually including a dissertation. The degree, sometimes abbreviated Dr. habil. (Doctor habilitatus) or PD (for Privatdozent) or D.Sc. (Doctor of Sciences in some East-European and post-Soviet countries), is often a qualification for full professorship in those countries. The degree conferral is usually accompanied by a public oral defence event (a lecture or a colloquium) with one or more opponents. Habilitation is usually awarded 5–15 years after a PhD degree or its equivalent. Although in some countries Doctor of Sciences degree correlates with a position of Docent (i.e. Associate Professor), it is closer in practice to the position of a Full Professor in the USA. History and etymology[edit] The term habilitation is derived from the Medieval Latin habilitare, meaning 'to make suitable, to fit', from Classical Latin habilis 'fit, proper, skillful'. The degree developed in Germany in the seventeenth century (c. 1652).[1] Initially, habilitation was synonymous with "doctoral qualification". The term became synonymous with "post-doctoral qualification" in Germany in the 19th century "when holding a doctorate seemed no longer sufficient to guarantee a proficient transfer of knowledge to the next generation".[2] Afterwards, it became normal in the German university system to write two doctoral theses: the inaugural thesis (Inauguraldissertation), completing a course of study; and the habilitation thesis (Habilitationsschrift), which opens the road to a professorship.[3] Prevalence[edit] Habilitation qualifications exist or existed in: Algeria (Habilitation à diriger des recherches, 'accreditation to supervise research', abbreviated HDR) Armenia, Azerbaijan, Lithuania (Habil. dr.; currently abolished and no longer conferred, but those who have earned the degree earlier will use it for life) Austria (formerly Univ.-Doz., now Priv.-Doz.) Belarus (Доктар навук [be], Łacinka: Doktar navuk) Belgium (French-speaking part: Agrégation de l'enseignement supérieur, until 2010) Brazil (Livre-docência [pt]) Bulgaria (Доцент, Docent) Czech Republic (doc., docent) Denmark (dr. med./scient./phil.) Egypt (العالمية Ālimiyya/Al-Azhar) Finland (Dosentti/Docent) France (Habilitation à diriger des recherches, 'accreditation to supervise research', abbreviated HDR) Germany (Priv.-Doz. and/or Dr. habil.) Greece (υφηγεσία, υφηγητής), abolished in 1983 Hungary (Dr. habil.) Italy (Abilitazione scientifica nazionale, since 2012) Latvia (Dr. habil., since 1995 no longer conferred, but those who have earned the degree earlier will use it for life) Luxembourg (autorisation à diriger des recherches, 'authorization to supervise research', or ADR) Moldova Poland (dr hab., doktor habilitowany) Portugal (Agregação) Romania (abilitare) Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Ukraine (Доктор наук [ru], Doktor nauk, 'Doctor of Sciences')[4] Serbia (Доцент, Docent) Slovakia (Docent) Slovenia (Docent) Spain (Accreditation of research – Agregado) Sweden (Docent) Switzerland (PD and/or Dr. habil.) Process[edit] A habilitation thesis can be either cumulative (based on previous research, be it articles or monographs) or monographical, i.e., a specific, unpublished thesis, which then tends to be very long. While cumulative habilitations are predominant in some fields (such as medicine), they have been, since about a century ago, almost unheard of in others (such as law). The level of scholarship of a habilitation is considerably higher than for a doctoral dissertation in the same academic tradition in terms of quality and quantity, and must be accomplished independently, without direction or guidance of a faculty supervisor.[5][6] In the sciences, publication of numerous (sometimes ten or more)[7] research articles is required during the habilitation period of about four to ten years. In the humanities, a major book publication may be a prerequisite for defense.[citation needed] It is possible to get a professorship without habilitation, if the search committee attests the candidate to have qualifications equaling those of a habilitation and the higher-ranking bodies (the university's senate and the country's ministry of education) approve. However, while some subjects make liberal use of this (e.g., the natural sciences in order to employ candidates from countries with different systems and the arts to employ active artists), in other subjects it is rarely done. The habilitation is awarded after a public lecture, to be held after the thesis has been accepted, and after which the venia legendi (Latin: 'permission to read', i.e., to lecture) is bestowed. In some areas, such as law, philosophy, theology and sociology, the venia, and thus the habilitation, is only given for certain sub-fields (such as criminal law, civil law, or philosophy of science, practical philosophy, etc.); in others, for the entire field. Although disciplines and countries vary in the typical number of years for obtaining habilitation after getting a doctorate, it usually takes longer than for the American academic tenure. For example, in Poland until 2018, the statutory time for getting a habilitation (traditionally, although not obligatorily, relying on a book publication) is eight years. Theoretically, if an assistant professor does not succeed in obtaining habilitation in this time, they should be moved to a position of a lecturer, with a much higher teaching load and no research obligations, or even be dismissed. In practice, however, on many occasions schools extend the deadlines for habilitation for most scholars if they do not make it in time, and there is evidence that they are able to finish it in the near future. Austria[edit] In Austria the procedure is currently regulated by national law (Austrian University Act UG2002 §103[8]). The graduation process includes additionally to the sub-commission of the senate (including students representatives for a hearing on the teaching capabilities of the candidate) an external reviewer. Holding a habilitation allows academics to do research and supervise (PhD, MSc, ...) on behalf of this university. As it is an academic degree, this is even valid if the person is not enrolled (or not enrolled anymore) at this institution (Habilitation ad personam). Appointment to a full professorship with an international finding commission includes a venia docendi (UG2002 §98(12)), which is restricted to the time of the appointment (UG2002 §98(13) – Habilitation ad positionem). While the habilitation ensures the rights of the independent research and the supervision, it is on behalf of the statute of the universities to give those rights also to, e.g., associate professors without habilitation. Currently the major Austrian universities do that only for master's level students, but not for PhD programs.[9][10][11] Brazil[edit] Livre-docência is a title (similar to Habilitation in Germany) granted to holders of doctorate degrees upon submission of a cumulative thesis followed by a viva voce examination. It has practically disappeared amongst Brazilian Federal HEIs. It is still required at a few institutions for admissions as a full professor (professor titular), most notably in the three state universities of the state of São Paulo, as well as at the Federal University of São Paulo (UNIFESP).[citation needed] France[edit] See also: Agrégation § In higher education The degree of Docteur d'État (State Doctor) or Doctorat d'État (State Doctorate), called Doctorat ès lettres (Doctor of Letters) or Doctorat ès sciences (Doctor of Sciences) before the 1950s,[12] formerly awarded by universities in France had a somewhat similar purpose. In 1984, the Doctorat d'État was replaced by the Habilitation à diriger des recherches (or French habilitation). The award of the French habilitation is a general requirement for being the main supervisor of PhD students and to be eligible for full professor positions. The official eligibility named qualification is granted by the French Conseil National des Universités (CNU). Members of Directeur de Recherche corps who are assimilated to full professors by the CNU do not require the French habilitation to supervise PhD students.[13][14] Depending on the field, the French habilitation requires consistent research from five to ten years after appointment as an assistant professor (maître de conférences), a substantial amount of significant publications, the supervision of at least one PhD student from start to graduation, a successful track record securing extramural funding as a principal investigator, as well as a sound, ambitious, and feasible five-year research project. Outstanding postdoctoral researchers who are not yet appointed to a university could also obtain the habilitation if they meet the requirements. The French habilitation committee is constituted by a majority of external and sometimes foreign referees. The French habilitation entitles assistant professors (maîtres de conférences) to apply for full professor positions (professeur des universités). As such, the French habilitation is similar to the promotion to associate professor in North America. In other words, the North American ranks of assistant professor, associate professor, and full professor are equivalent to maître de conférences, French habilitation/qualification, and professeur des universités, respectively, in France. Germany[edit] See also: § History and etymology In order to hold the rank of a full professor within the German university system, it is necessary to have obtained the habilitation (or "habilitation-equivalent achievements"). This can be demonstrated by leading a research group, being a junior professor, or other achievements in research and teaching as a post-doct contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Dr._phil._hab. responseCode 3 200 