ukmggiuchemkeqlkhadorqjkrmakiikkoseqaoxg page 10014 Region in the Northeastern United States This article is about the region in North America. For other uses, see New England (disambiguation). Place New England Left-right from top: Boston skyline, Portland Head Light in Cape Elizabeth, the Presidential Range, Burlington skyline, Aquinnah, the Connecticut River valley, skyline of Providence Flag (unofficial) Motto(s): None official. "An Appeal to Heaven" and "Nunquam libertas gratior extat" (Latin for "Never does liberty appear in a more gracious form") are common de facto mottos. Location of New England (red) in the United States Location of New England (red) in North America Composition Connecticut Maine Massachusetts New Hampshire Rhode Island Vermont Largest metropolitan area Greater Boston Largest city Boston Area • Total 71,987.59 sq mi (186,447.0 km2) • Land 62,688.4 sq mi (162,362 km2) Population (2020) • Total 15,116,205 • Density 210/sq mi (81/km2) Demonym(s) New Englander, Yankee,[1] Novanglian, Novanglican (archaic)[2] GDP (nominal) [3] • Total $1.148 trillion (2019) • per capita $77,000 (2019) Dialects New England English, New England French New England is a region comprising six states in the Northeastern United States: Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont. It is bordered by the state of New York to the west and by the Canadian provinces of New Brunswick to the northeast and Quebec to the north. The Gulf of Maine and Atlantic Ocean is to the east and southeast, and Long Island Sound is to the southwest. Boston is New England's largest city, as well as the capital of Massachusetts. Greater Boston is the largest metropolitan area, with nearly a third of New England's population; this area includes Worcester, Massachusetts (the second-largest city in New England), Manchester, New Hampshire (the largest city in New Hampshire), and Providence, Rhode Island (the capital of and largest city in Rhode Island). In 1620, the Puritan Pilgrims established Plymouth Colony, the second successful English settlement in America, following the Jamestown Settlement in Virginia founded in 1607. Ten years later, more Puritans established Massachusetts Bay Colony north of Plymouth Colony. Over the next 126 years, people in the region fought in four French and Indian Wars, until the English colonists and their Iroquois allies defeated the French and their Algonquian allies in America. In the late 18th century, political leaders from the New England colonies initiated resistance to Britain's taxes without the consent of the colonists. Residents of Rhode Island captured and burned a British ship which was enforcing unpopular trade restrictions, and residents of Boston threw British tea into the harbor. Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government which the colonists called the "Intolerable Acts". These confrontations led to the first battles of the American Revolutionary War in 1775 and the expulsion of the British authorities from the region in spring 1776. The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery in the United States, and it was the first region of the U.S. transformed by the Industrial Revolution, initially centered on the Blackstone and Merrimack river valleys. The physical geography of New England is diverse. Southeastern New England is covered by a narrow coastal plain, while the western and northern regions are dominated by the rolling hills and worn-down peaks of the northern end of the Appalachian Mountains. The Atlantic fall line lies close to the coast, which enabled numerous cities to take advantage of water power along the many rivers, such as the Connecticut River, which bisects the region from north to south. Each state is generally subdivided into small municipalities known as towns, many of which are governed by town meetings. Unincorporated areas are practically nonexistent outside of Maine, and village-style governments common in other areas are limited to Vermont and Connecticut. New England is one of the U.S. Census Bureau's nine regional divisions and the only multi-state region with clear, consistent boundaries. It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity,[4] although the terms of this identity are often contrasted, combining Puritanism with liberalism, agrarian life with industry, and isolation with immigration. History[edit] Main article: History of New England Indigenous territories, circa 1600 in present-day southern New England The earliest known inhabitants of New England were American Indians who spoke a variety of the Eastern Algonquian languages.[5] Prominent tribes included the Abenakis, Mi'kmaq, Penobscot, Pequots, Mohegans, Narragansetts, Nipmucs, Pocumtucks, and Wampanoags.[5] Prior to the arrival of European colonists, the Western Abenakis inhabited what is now New Hampshire, New York, and Vermont, as well as parts of Quebec and western Maine.[6] Their principal town was Norridgewock in today's Maine.[7] The Penobscots lived along the Penobscot River in Maine. The Narragansetts and smaller tribes under their sovereignty lived in Rhode Island, west of Narragansett Bay, including Block Island. The Wampanoags occupied southeastern Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and the islands of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket. The Pocumtucks lived in Western Massachusetts, and the Mohegan and Pequot tribes lived in Connecticut. The Connecticut River Valley linked numerous tribes culturally, linguistically, and politically.[5] As early as the year 1600, French, Dutch, and English traders began exploring the New World, trading metal, glass, and cloth for local beaver pelts.[5][8] Colonial period[edit] Main articles: New England Colonies, Plymouth Council for New England, Connecticut Colony, and Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations Soldier and explorer John Smith coined the name "New England" in 1616. On April 10, 1606, King James I of England issued a charter for the Virginia Company, which consisted of the London Company and the Plymouth Company. These two privately funded ventures were intended to claim land for England, to conduct trade, and to return a profit. In 1620, the Pilgrims arrived on the Mayflower and established Plymouth Colony in Massachusetts, beginning the history of permanent European colonization in New England.[9] In 1616, English explorer John Smith named the region "New England".[10] The name was officially sanctioned on November 3, 1620,[11] when the charter of the Virginia Company of Plymouth was replaced by a royal charter for the Plymouth Council for New England, a joint-stock company established to colonize and govern the region.[12] The Pilgrims wrote and signed the Mayflower Compact before leaving the ship,[13] and it became their first governing document.[14] The Massachusetts Bay Colony came to dominate the area and was established by royal charter in 1629[15][16] with its major town and port of Boston established in 1630.[17] Massachusetts Puritans began to establish themselves in Connecticut as early as 1633.[18] Roger Williams was banished from Massachusetts for theological reasons; he led a group south where they founded Providence Plantations, which grew into the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in 1636.[19][20] At this time, Vermont was uncolonized, and the territories of New Hampshire and Maine were claimed and governed by Massachusetts. As the region grew, it received many immigrants from Europe due to its religious tolerance and economy.[21] French and Indian Wars[edit] A 1638 engraving depicting the Mystic massacre An English map of New England c. 1670 depicts the area around modern Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Relationships alternated between peace and armed skirmishes between colonists and local Native American tribes, the bloodiest of which was the Pequot War in 1637 which resulted in the Mystic massacre.[22] On May 19, 1643, the colonies of Massachusetts Bay, Plymouth, New Haven, and Connecticut joined in a loose compact called the New England Confederation (officially "The United Colonies of New England"). The confederation was designed largely to coordinate mutual defense, and it gained some importance during King Philip's War[23] which pitted the colonists and their Indian allies against a widespread Indian uprising from June 1675 through April 1678, resulting in killings and massacres on both sides.[24] In the aftermath of settler-Native conflicts, hundreds of captive Indians were sold into slavery.[25][26] Up until 1700, Native Americans comprised a majority of the non-white labor force in colonial New England.[27] During the next 74 years, there were six colonial wars that took place primarily between New England and New France,[28] during which New England was allied with the Iroquois Confederacy and New France was allied with the Wabanaki Confederacy. Mainland Nova Scotia came under the control of New England after the Siege of Port Royal (1710), but both New Brunswick and most of Maine remained contested territory between New England and New France. The British eventually defeated the French in 1763, opening the Connecticut River Valley for British settlement into western New Hampshire and Vermont. The New England Colonies were settled primarily by farmers who became relatively self-sufficient. Later, New England's economy began to focus on crafts and trade, aided by the Puritan work ethic, in contrast to the Southern colonies which focused on agricultural production while importing finished goods from England.[29] Dominion of New England[edit] Main articles: Dominion of New England, American Revolutionary War, American Revolution, and Boston campaign The New England Ensign, one of several flags historically associated with New England. This flag was reportedly used by colonial merchant ships sailing out of New England ports, 1686 – c. 1737.[30][31][32][33][34] New England's Siege of Louisbourg (1745) by Peter Monamy By 1686, King James II had become concerne contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 45 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/New_England responseCode 3 200 