umvqrsecgosclsdqqormccjstcqqsiyqjotchkxk page 10002 Legislative branch of U.S. government "American Parliament" redirects here. For other uses, see American Parliament (disambiguation). For the current Congress, see 118th United States Congress. For the building, see United States Capitol. United States Congress 118th United States Congress Type Type Bicameral Houses Senate House of Representatives History Founded March 4, 1789 (234 years ago) (1789-03-04) Preceded by Congress of the Confederation New session started January 3, 2023 Leadership President of the Senate Kamala Harris (D) since January 20, 2021 Senate president pro tempore Patty Murray (D) since January 3, 2023 Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D) since January 20, 2021 Speaker of the House Mike Johnson (R) since October 25, 2023 House Majority Leader Steve Scalise (R) since January 3, 2023 Structure Seats 535 voting members 100 senators 435 representatives 6 non-voting members Senate political groups Majority (51) Democratic (48) Independent (3)[a] Minority (49) Republican (49) House of Representatives political groups Majority (221) Republican (221) Minority (212) Democratic (212) Elections Last Senate election November 8, 2022 Last House of Representatives election November 8, 2022 Next Senate election November 5, 2024 Next House of Representatives election November 5, 2024 Meeting place United States Capitol Washington, D.C. United States of America Website www.congress.gov Constitution United States Constitution, article I This article is part of a series on the Politics of the United States Federal government Constitution of the United States Law Taxation Policy Legislature United States Congress House of Representatives Speaker Mike Johnson (R) Majority Leader Steve Scalise (R) Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D) Congressional districts (List of congressional districts) Senate President Kamala Harris (D) President Pro Tempore Patty Murray (D) Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D) Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R) Executive President of the United States Joe Biden (D) Vice President of the United States Kamala Harris (D) Cabinet Federal agencies Executive Office Judiciary Supreme Court of the United States Chief Justice John Roberts Thomas Alito Sotomayor Kagan Gorsuch Kavanaugh Barrett Jackson Courts of appeals District courts (list) Other tribunals Elections National Elections Presidential elections Midterm elections Off-year elections Primary elections Presidential primary Elections by State and Territory Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming American Samoa Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico U.S. Virgin Islands Washington, D.C. (List of Elections) Political parties Democratic Republican Third parties Libertarian Green List of political parties Political ideologies Conservatism history Black Neo- Paleo- Social Traditionalist Liberalism Modern Progressivism Abolitionism Constitutionalism Environmentalism Feminism Libertarianism Monarchism Populism Protectionism Republicanism Socialism Anarchism Individualist anarchism Political culture Political polarization Federalism State State government Political ideology of states in the United States Governors Legislatures (list) State courts local government Foreign relations Department of State Secretary of State: Antony Blinken Diplomatic missions of / in the United States Nationality law Passports Visa requirements Visa policy United States and the United Nations United Nations Security Council P5 NATO G20 G7 Russia China India Japan Canada United Kingdom European Union Latin America Arab League United States portal Politics portal v t e Constitutional law of the United States Overview Articles Amendments History Judicial review Principles Separation of powers Individual rights Rule of law Federalism Republicanism Equal footing Strict scrutiny Government structure Legislative branch Executive branch Judicial branch State government Local government Individual rights Freedom of religion Freedom of speech Freedom of the press Freedom of assembly Right to petition Freedom of association Right to keep and bear arms Right to trial by jury Criminal procedural rights Right to privacy Freedom from slavery Due process Equal protection Citizenship Voting rights Comprehensible rules Theory Living Constitution Originalism Substantive due process Political process theory Purposivism Textualism Strict constructionism Common good constitutionalism v t e The United States Congress is the legislature of the federal government of the United States. It is bicameral, composed of a lower body, the House of Representatives, and an upper body, the Senate. It meets in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. Senators and representatives are chosen through direct election, though vacancies in the Senate may be filled by a governor's appointment. Congress[b] has 535 voting members: 100 senators and 435 representatives. The U.S. vice president has a vote in the Senate only when senators are evenly divided. The House of Representatives has six non-voting members.[4] The sitting of a Congress is for a two-year term, at present, beginning every other January. Elections are held every even-numbered year on Election Day. The members of the House of Representatives are elected for the two-year term of a Congress. The Reapportionment Act of 1929 established that there be 435 representatives, and the Uniform Congressional Redistricting Act requires that they be elected from single-member constituencies or districts. It is also required that the congressional districts be apportioned among states by population every ten years using the U.S. census results, provided that each state has at least one congressional representative. Each senator is elected at-large in their state for a six-year term, with terms staggered, so every two years approximately one-third of the Senate is up for election. Each state, regardless of population or size, has two senators, so currently, there are 100 senators for the 50 states. Article One of the U.S. Constitution requires that members of Congress must be at least 25 years old (House) or at least 30 years old (Senate), have been a citizen of the U.S. for seven (House) or nine (Senate) years, and be an inhabitant of the state which they represent. Members in both chambers may stand for re-election an unlimited number of times. The Congress was created by the U.S. Constitution and first met in 1789, replacing the Congress of the Confederation in its legislative function. Although not legally mandated, in practice since the 19th century, Congress members are typically affiliated with one of the two major parties, the Democratic Party or the Republican Party, and only rarely with a third party or independents affiliated with no party. In the case of the latter, the lack of affiliation with a political party does not mean that such members are unable to caucus with members of the political parties. Members can also switch parties at any time, although this is quite uncommon. Overview[edit] Overview of the United States legislative process, as explained by the Library of Congress Article One of the United States Constitution states, "All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives." The House and Senate are equal partners in the legislative process – legislation cannot be enacted without the consent of both chambers. The Constitution grants each chamber some unique powers. The Senate ratifies treaties and approves presidential appointments while the House initiates revenue-raising bills. In 1868, this committee of representatives prosecuted President Andrew Johnson in his impeachment trial, but the Senate did not convict him. The House initiates impeachment cases, while the Senate decides impeachment cases.[5] A two-thirds vote of the Senate is required before an impeached person can be removed from office.[5] The term Congress can also refer to a particular meeting of the legislature. A Congress covers two years; the current one, the 118th Congress, began on January 3, 2023, and will end on January 3, 2025. Since the adoption of the Twentieth Amendment to the United States Constitution, the Congress has started and ended at noon on the third day of January of every odd-numbered year. Members of the Senate are referred to as senators; members of the House of Representatives are referred to as representatives, Congressmen, or Congresswomen. Scholar and representative Lee H. Hamilton asserted that the "historic mission of Congress has been to maintain freedom" and insisted it was a "driving force in American government"[6] and a "remarkably resilient institution".[7] Congress is the "heart and soul of our democracy", according to this view,[8] even though legislators rarely achieve the prestige or name recognition of presidents or Supreme Court justices; one wrote that "legislators remain ghosts in America's historical imagination."[8] One analyst argues that it is not a solely reactive institution but has played an active role in shaping government policy and is extraordinarily sensitive to public pressure.[8] Several academics described Congress: Congress reflects us in all our strengths and all our weaknesses. It reflects our regional idiosyncrasies, our ethnic, religious, and racial diversity, our multitude of professions, and our shadings of opinion on everything from the value of war to the war over values. Congress is the government's most representative body ... Congress is essentially charged with contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/United_States_Congress responseCode 3 200 