uomcdmyayqtmmkbciimiksuqxcyqqqjmvsqqtcpo page 10002 This page in a nutshell: There are a variety of ways in which editors can contribute to the Selected anniversaries project. The deciding criteria in what gets posted to the "On this day" section of the Main Page each day are NOT solely based on what are "the most important or significant" anniversaries on this day. This is due to the fact that any given day of the year can have a great many historically significant events all eligible to be included, and because relative article quality, along with the mix of topics listed, are also considered. Shortcut WP:OTD Selected anniversaries / On this day archive All January February March April May June July August September October November December Recent changes Editing guidelines It is now 23:22 on Monday, November 20, 2023 (UTC)|Purge cache for this page This set of pages serves as a queue of selected anniversaries which populate the section of the Main Page each day. These pages are also used to help facilitate and coordinate updates to this queue. The selected anniversaries are taken from events in history on each day of the year and holidays/observances from current lunar-based calendars including Jewish, Islamic, and others. How to contribute to the project[edit] Editors can contribute to the Selected anniversaries project in three main ways: Identify entries on the project pages that are currently 'ineligible' in the 'staging area' (see next section) and make improvements so that they become eligible. The reason for the entries being ineligible may be, for example, due to criteria 4-6 listed below. Make improvements to the selected article (the boldfaced link in the entry) to resolve the issue(s), then post a message on the project talk page for that day noting the improvements made and that the entry is ready to be considered to move to the 'eligible' section. An administrator or regular editor working on the project will come along to review the improvements and move it to the 'eligible' section in due course.[nb 1] Make suggestions for new entries to be included in the project pages (see 'Steps for suggesting new listings' below). Anticipate upcoming anniversaries that are significant or notable (e.g., due to a centenary) and may be particularly worthwhile including in the "On this day" section of the Main Page on that date. Post a message on the project talk page with the suggestions to inform other editors working on the project and complete steps 1 or 2 above to ensure an entry is available for an administrator to use for the "On this day" section on that date. Purpose of the staging area[edit] A list of events and images can be viewed by expanding the 'staging area' on the project page for each day, for example Wikipedia:Selected anniversaries/January 1 (the staging area is not visible when transcluded onto another page, including the Main Page, due to <noinclude></noinclude> tags). Some of these items (the 'eligible' section) are rotated in and out from year to year to form the group that is chosen for the "On this day" section on the Main Page for that day of the year. Other items are listed as 'ineligible' because the event and/or its selected article (boldfaced link) do not pass the selected anniversaries criteria (see below). Making improvements (as described in the section above) so that these entries become eligible is one of the valuable ways editors can contribute to the project. Reporting errors[edit] To report an error you noticed on the current main page or tomorrow's main page, please add it to the appropriate section on Wikipedia:Main Page/Errors. For other dates, please start a new discussion at Wikipedia Talk:Selected anniversaries. Admins: If the need arises to remove visible items from a page while it is on the Main Page, please move the items into the 'staging area' if possible, instead of outright deleting them, so they can prospectively be used again in the future. Steps for suggesting new listings[edit] Be bold while improving this queue but please make sure you follow the selected anniversaries criteria below. Important: although anniversary listings on individual date articles are written in present tense, these selected anniversary listings should be written in past tense to help distinguish them from current events in "In the news" when displayed on the Main Page. A single sentence for each entry is preferable and the link to the selected article should be boldfaced. If you want to add an item to yesterday's, today's, or tomorrow's listings, you need to be an administrator because those pages are protected. If you're not an administrator, add them to the talk page, such as Wikipedia talk:Selected anniversaries/November 20. For unprotected days, go ahead and add them directly to the project page, such as Wikipedia:Selected anniversaries/November 22, either in the visible section or in the staging area. If you replace a visible entry, be sure you return the one you removed to the staging area collapsible box. If you are not sure what to do or how to best phrase the blurb, make your suggestion on that day's talk page. Selected anniversaries criteria[edit] Shortcut WP:OTDRULES The criteria for inclusion in the selected anniversaries project pages are subjective due to the fact that any given day of the year can have a great many historical events worthy of listing; relative article quality along with the mix of topics already listed are considered when building OTD sets for each day. Criteria for eligibility are at least: The event needs to be of moderate to great historical significance (relative to the other historical events that occurred on the same day of the year). It must be important enough to be included in the selected article (boldfaced item) and should also be the most, or one of the most, important events associated with that article. Furthermore, the event should have occurred on the day in question in the calendar in use at the time (per MOS:JG). The date of the event should be determined by the local time, or UTC if local time is not applicable (e.g., not on Earth). Selected articles (boldfaced items) should comply with the criteria for inclusion listed on Wikipedia:Days of the year. The selected article (boldfaced item) needs to be updated to clearly state the event or day of the celebration/observance or birth/death, as well as the exact day it occurred/occurs. This is especially true for non-Gregorian-based holidays and observances whose date differs each year. The date must be cited to a reliable source with an inline citation, since inline citations are used to support specific statements in an article. The only exceptions are recurring holidays that appear on a given day of the week, such as the first Monday of the month. In those cases, the rule itself must be cited, but the actual date for the current year need not be (see WP:CALC). The selected article (boldfaced item) must not be a stub and must be a relatively complete and well-formatted article, free from 'yellow'-level or more severe article issue tags (alternatively, many {{citation needed}} tags relative to the article's length may disqualify it in lieu of a banner-sized maintenance tag). In other words, it should be a good example of Wikipedia content (but it does not need to be a good article or a featured article). As of February 2017, we now feature at least one birth and death of a notable person, listed underneath the regular blurbs. This number may be increased if space permits. The criteria for inclusion are: The article needs to be listed in the Births or Deaths section of its corresponding day-of-the-year article (e.g., January 1 ยง Births), and therefore comply with the criteria for inclusion listed on WP:DOY ยง Births and deaths. The article is subject to the same quality requirements as those featured in the blurbs. People who are listed on their dates of birth may not also be listed on their death dates, and vice versa. Furthermore, if the person is featured (boldfaced item) as a regular blurb on any day, they may not be chosen for birth/death listings (with exceptions, as per below). As much as possible, the array of topics should include a variety of years (e.g., not just limited to the 20th/21st centuries), geographical areas (e.g., more than just the English-speaking world), and subjects (e.g., not too many articles on war or technology). Ideally, any particular selected article should only be included as a boldfaced item once in the project pages. To help make sure articles are not selected (boldfaced item) more than once, check the links to that article and examine all the pages listed that begin with Wikipedia:Selected anniversaries/. There is no limit to the number of times an article can be incidentally linked in the project pages (this includes all the non-boldfaced links). Exceptions can be made when any given day is short for eligible articles and the only suitable article already is featured on a different day. In those cases, those articles still should not be selected more than once in the year (i.e., if an article is eligible for inclusion on multiple days, then it should only make one OTD appearance per year). This rule does not apply to holidays/observances, because the same holiday may be celebrated on different dates in different countries, and country articles, because they may be the boldfaced item for holidays such as an Independence Day if the nation's observance doesn't have its own article. Please note, entries are written in the past tense, preferably in a single sentence. Criteria for images[edit] Images associated with the events can be listed on the project pages for each day. The following criteria apply to images: Images in landscape orientation are usually set to be 150px wide (120px for portrait-oriented images). Because the image is so small, the subject should be easily distinguished at that size. Judicious cropping may also be employed to highlight a specific aspect of the image (see {{m-cropped}}).  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 66 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Selected_anniversaries responseCode 3 200 