uonqdeacuccaqmucrqmsqarqeeboxqhsskxqpcbg page 10010 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... Please add the line ==={{subst:CURRENTDAY}} {{subst:CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{subst:CURRENTYEAR}}=== for each new day and the time the set was removed from the DYK template at the top for the newly posted set of archived hooks. This will ensure all times are based on UTC time and accurate. This page should be archived once a month. Thanks. 30 April 2018 12:00, 30 April 2018 (UTC) Great Hall at the Strangers' Home ... that in 19th-century London, residents of the Strangers' Home (pictured) were "undefiled by even the shadow of an infidel"? ... that Scott Foster, a 36-year-old accountant, made his professional ice hockey debut as a goaltender for the Chicago Blackhawks in 2018 and saved every shot he faced? ... that a train graveyard in Uyuni, Bolivia, has become a tourist attraction? ... that Astrid Medina farms coffee at over 1,800 metres (5,900 ft)? ... that public art at Convention Place station in Seattle includes neon tubes that emulate New York's Chrysler Building and the nearby Paramount Theatre? ... that a male grey-chinned minivet was observed approaching a female while carrying a flower? ... that the Western Union Building is the only surviving example of a 19th-century bank building in Aberdeen, South Dakota? ... that Hungarian mathematician Márta Svéd earned her Ph.D. at age 75? 00:00, 30 April 2018 (UTC) Marlon Bundo ... that a children's book illustrated by Gerald Kelley parodies another children's book written by Charlotte Pence about her pet rabbit Marlon Bundo (pictured) by portraying him as gay? ... that during the Baltimore Orioles–Chicago White Sox crowdless game, announcer Gary Thorne called an Adam Jones at-bat in the hushed tone of golf announcers like Jim Nantz? ... that Mariya Tsukanova was the only woman in the Soviet–Japanese War to be awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union? ... that the indie strategy turn-based RPG Halcyon 6 was described as a game that "makes cosmic horror cute"? ... that Henry S. Russell, commander of the 5th Regiment Massachusetts Colored Volunteer Cavalry, later served as the first solo commissioner of the Boston Fire Department? ... that during the 2015 Mo Pop Festival in Detroit, heavy rainfall overwhelmed the park's drainage capabilities and formed a standing body of water nicknamed "Lake Mo Pop"? ... that for the production of 47 Ronin, costume designer Penny Rose oversaw the creation of 998 costumes and 400 suits of armour? ... that the binomen of the type species of the bee fly genus Brachyanax can be translated as "little chief nipple twister"? 29 April 2018 12:00, 29 April 2018 (UTC) Cathinka Buchwieser ... that Franz Schubert dedicated compositions to Cathinka Buchwieser (pictured), a soprano who appeared in Vienna as Mozart's Sesto and Elvira, and as Ferdinando Paer's Achille and Leonora? ... that "the errors of many generations" were said to have been "forever buried" in the footnotes of the 1841 travelogue Biblical Researches in Palestine? ... that Berthe Fraser, a French Resistance agent, helped more than 100 Allied airmen and other agents escape during the Second World War? ... that Chinko Nature Reserve in central Africa provides a habitat with the genetic diversity needed to reestablish animal populations in neighbouring regions? ... that Rodney Legg called the National Trust "an elitist club for art connoisseurs"? ... that on the Ramones' 1987 Halfway to Sanity tour, the group was banned from playing at Boston College and attended a student anti-censorship protest instead? ... that larvae of the sea urchin Hemicentrotus pulcherrimus are stimulated to settle on the seabed when they detect traces of certain algae in the water? ... that American baseball player Tyler Kinley's ancestors changed their surname from "McKinley" after the assassination of the 25th President of the United States? 00:00, 29 April 2018 (UTC) Mott's aerial depiction of the General Motors building ... that among American architectural artist Edwin D. Mott's aerial depictions was the General Motors building at the 1939 New York World's Fair (pictured)? ... that the motion sickness of the manga character Natsu Dragneel was based on one of Fairy Tail author Hiro Mashima's friends? ... that a proposal was made that the Cauca molly be used in biological pest control of mosquitoes? ... that although New York City's Second Avenue Subway was originally planned in 1920, the first stations did not open for another 97 years? ... that Elizabeth Paston's first husband died in battle fighting for the House of York, and her second husband was beheaded for treason against it? ... that more than 400 clay figures of animals, boats, dancers, houses, and warriors line the garden paths of Heiwadai Park? ... that at the time of his appointment at Stockport County in 1999, footballer Andy Kilner was the youngest manager in the Football League? ... that the Clydesdale Motor Truck Company was named, in part, after a breed of horse? 28 April 2018 12:00, 28 April 2018 (UTC) Kennedy's speech on the space effort on September 12, 1962 ... that President John F. Kennedy (pictured) said: "We choose to go to the Moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard"? ... that Gujarati poet Manilal H. Patel has written poetry touching on his experiences in and around Idar, a town in the Gujarat state of India? ... that Spain abandoned El Piñal, its trading port in China, after encountering hostilities from the Portuguese? ... that in 1851, the German soprano Anna Bochkoltz-Falconi appeared at La Scala in Milan in Pergolesi's Lo frate 'nnamorato? ... that the former baggage room of Edmonds station is now used by a model railroad club? ... that 18S rDNA analysis has shown that the green algae genus Golenkinia may belong to a previously unknown sister clade of order Sphaeropleales? ... that Leo Tornikios, a failed claimant to the Byzantine throne, was publicly blinded at Christmas 1047? ... that a Royal Australian Air Force officer is the head of the UN's rear? 00:00, 28 April 2018 (UTC) L. cordifolium flower head ... that plants of the genus Leucospermum (L. cordifolium pictured) are known as pincushions? ... that when Ulysses S. Grant visited the island of Hachijō-jima in 1877, he was ceremonially adopted by the village chief and given a name meaning "courageous general" in the local dialect? ... that the revised edition of John Richard Clark Hall's translation of Beowulf includes a preface by J. R. R. Tolkien? ... that the 1964 Academy Award-nominated short film Breaking the Habit exposes "the danger and the essential silliness of smoking"? ... that Scott G. Borg is credited with helping develop the drilling technology that retrieved the first pure water samples from half a mile (0.8 km) below the surface of an ice-covered Antarctic lake? ... that a series of British nuclear tests was carried out in the United States to develop warheads for the UK Polaris programme? ... that when Ukrainian pianist Milana Chernyavska recorded Nikolai Rakov's violin sonatas with David Frühwirth, a review called her "a full partner in the proceedings, delicate and brutal as required"? ... that the current rivalry between Major League Soccer teams in the Los Angeles area is named El Tráfico? 27 April 2018 12:00, 27 April 2018 (UTC) Surrey Dispensary, c. 1840 ... that in 1844, the medical officer of the Surrey Dispensary (pictured) said he frequently visited places where excrement accumulated for months or remained in streets until the rain washed it away? ... that Afr contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2018/April responseCode 3 200 