usoewmrsmsgafouesqeeqguemilqnigoxihkveag length 6 192726 page 10086 2nd president of Paraguay (served 1862-1870) For the Argentine comics artist of the same name, see Francisco Solano López (comics). In this Spanish name, the first or paternal surname is López and the second or maternal family name is Carrillo. Marshal of Paraguay Francisco Solano López López, c. 1870 2nd President of Paraguay In office 10 September 1862 – 1 March 1870 (1862-09-10 – 1870-03-01) Vice President Domingo Francisco Sánchez Preceded by Carlos Antonio López Succeeded by Cirilo Antonio Rivarola Personal details Born (1826-07-24)24 July 1826[1] Asunción, Paraguay Died 1 March 1870(1870-03-01) (aged 43) Cerro Corá, Paraguay Spouse Eliza Alicia Lynch Parent Carlos Antonio López (father) Signature Military service Allegiance Paraguay Branch/service Paraguayan Army Years of service 1844–1870 Rank Lieutenant General previously Brigadier General (1862–1865) Marshal-President of the Paraguayan Armies (1865–) Commands Commander of the Paraguayan Expeditionary Force in Corrientes (1845–1846) Commander of the Paraguayan Expeditionary Force in Misiones (1848–1852) Commander in Chief of the Paraguayan Army in the Paraguayan War (1864–1870) Battles/wars Platine Wars: Against Rosas (1845–1852) Crimean War: As attaché militaire in the French Army (1854)[3] Paraguayan War: Mato Grosso Campaign Corrientes Campaign Río Grande Campaign Humaita Campaign Pikysyry Campaign Cordilleras Campaign Awards Commander of the Imperial Order of Christ of Brazil Commander of the Legion of Honour of France Commander of the Order of Saints Maurice and Lazarus Knight of the Supreme Order of Christ of the Holy See[2] Grand Cross of the National Order of Merit of Paraguay Francisco Solano López Carrillo (24 July 1826[1]– 1 March 1870) was a Paraguayan military officer, politician and statesman who served as President of Paraguay between 1862 and 1870, of which he served mostly during the Paraguayan War (1864–1870). He succeeded his father Carlos Antonio López as the second president of Paraguay. Solano López is the only Paraguayan ruler to have been killed in action. He is one of only two Paraguayans to have received the rank of Marshal, along with José Félix Estigarribia. At a very young age, he served in the Paraguayan Army fighting against Juan Manuel de Rosas in the sporadic hostilities sustained by Paraguay and Argentina during the Platine Wars. After the downfall of Rosas, he became Ambassador of Paraguay, as Minister Plenipotentiary, in several European countries from 1853 to 1855. At his return to Asunción, he was appointed Vice-President of the Supreme Government of his father Carlos, and then assumed the presidency when his father died. He is one of the most controversial figures in South American history, particularly because of the Paraguayan War, known in the Plate Basin as "the War of the Triple Alliance" (Spanish: la Guerra de la Triple Alianza). From one perspective, his ambitions were the main reason for the outbreak of the war[4] while other arguments maintain he was a fierce champion of the independence of South American nations against foreign rule and interests.[5] He fought until the very end and was killed in action during the Battle of Cerro Corá, which marked the end of the war. Life and career[edit] Life before the war[edit] Solano López around age 27, c.1854 Solano López was born in Manorá, a barrio of Asunción in 1827. His father, Carlos Antonio López, ascended to the Paraguayan Presidency in 1841 following the death of the nation's longtime dictator, José Gaspar Rodríguez de Francia. The elder López would commission his son as a brigadier general in the Paraguayan Army, at the age of 17, in 1844. During the Argentine Civil Wars, Solano López was appointed commander-in-chief of Paraguayan forces stationed along the Argentine frontier.[6] He pursued his early military studies in Rio de Janeiro and Asunción, specializing in fortifications and artillery. Brigadier General Francisco Solano López, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the Republic of Paraguay Solano López was dispatched to Europe in 1853 as minister plenipotentiary to Britain, France, and the Kingdom of Sardinia. López went on to spend over a year and a half in Europe, most of it in Paris. He also travelled to Russia, where he served as a foreign military observer during the Crimean War.[7] He purchased large quantities of arms and military supplies, together with several steamers, on behalf of the Paraguayan military. He also modernized the Paraguayan Army with the novelties he acquired in Europe, adopting the French Code and the Prussian System of military organization (receiving some praise for this innovation many years later).[8] His diplomatic work also included organizing a project to build a new railroad and efforts to establish a French émigré colony in Paraguay. He installed the first electric telegraph in South America. López also became a great admirer of the French Second Empire and developed a fascination with Napoleon Bonaparte.[9] López later equipped his army with uniforms designed to match those of the Grande Armée and it was said that he also ordered for himself an exact replica of Napoleon's crown,[10] yet this remains unproven.[11] It was also during his time in France that Solano López met a Parisian courtesan, the Irish-born Eliza Lynch, and brought her with him back to Paraguay. There she was his concubine and de facto first lady till his death. Solano López returned from Europe in 1855 and his father appointed him Minister of War. He was elevated to the office of Vice President of Paraguay in 1857.[12][13] In November 1859, López was on board the Paraguayan steamer Tacuari, which was captured by Royal Navy ships attempting to pressure his father into releasing a British citizen from prison. The British consul who ordered the action was Sir William Dougal Christie, who had been replaced by Edward Thornton, who adopted a far less aggressive tone compared to Christie.[14] With his father's death in 1862, López convened the Congress of Paraguay, and was unanimously proclaimed President of Paraguay for a term of ten years.[9] Presidency[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2018) (template removal help) The Throne: López and his Cabinet After taking office, López opted to continue most of the policies of economic protectionism and internal development adopted by his predecessors. However, he broke sharply with the traditional policy of strict isolationism in foreign affairs that was favoured by previous Paraguayan leaders. López instead embarked on a more activist approach to international policy. He had, as his great ambition, to position Paraguay as a credible "third force" in the ongoing rivalry between Argentina and the Empire of Brazil over control of the Rio de la Plata Basin. López wanted Paraguay to compete with the continent's major powers in the struggle for spoils and regional dominance. In pursuit of this goal, López sought to organize the region's smaller nations into a political coalition designed to offset the power and influence of the Brazilians and the Argentines. López found an eager ally in Uruguayan President Bernardo Berro, another leader whose country was frequently menaced by the various intrigues of the continent's two great powers. Berro and López would quickly conclude an alliance and López would begin a massive expansion and reorganization of the Paraguayan military, introducing mandatory military service for all men along with other reforms. Under López, Paraguay grew to possess one of the best-trained but ill-equipped military in the region. He bought new weapons from France and England but they failed to arrive because of the blockade imposed by the allies when the war broke out.[citation needed] Role in beginning the war[edit] The last known picture of Solano López, taken by photographer Domenico Parodi, c. 1870. In 1863, the Empire of Brazil—which did not have friendly relations with Paraguay—began providing military and political support to an incipient rebellion in Uruguay led by Venancio Flores and his Colorado Party against the Blanco Party government of Bernardo Berro and his successor, Atanasio Aguirre.[15] The besieged Uruguayans repeatedly asked for military assistance from their Paraguayan allies against the Brazilian-backed rebels. López manifested his support for Aguirre's government via a letter to Brazil, in which he said that any occupation of Uruguayan lands by Brazil would be considered an attack on Paraguay.[15] When Brazil did not heed the letter and invaded Uruguay on 12 October 1864, López seized the Brazilian merchant steamer Marqués de Olinda in the harbour of Asunción,[16] and imprisoned the Brazilian governor of the province of Mato Grosso, who was on board. In the following month (December 1864) López formally declared war on Brazil and dispatched a force to invade Mato Grosso. The force seized and sacked the town of Corumbá and took possession of the province and its diamond mines,[17] together with an immense quantity of arms and ammunition, including enough gunpowder to last the whole Paraguayan Army for at least a year of active war.[18] However, Paraguayan forces could not or would not seize the capital city of Cuiabá, in northern Mato Grosso. López next intended to send troops to Uruguay to support the government of Atanasio Aguirre, yet when he requested permission from Argentina to cross onto its soil, President Bartolomé Mitre refused to allow the Paraguayan force to cross the intervening province of Corrientes.[19] By this time the Brazilians had managed to successfully topple Aguirre and install their ally Venancio Flores as president, rendering Uruguay little more than a Brazilian puppet state.[6] The Paraguayan Congress, summoned by López, bestowed him the title of "Marshal-President" of the Paraguayan Armi contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Francisco_Solano_L%C3%B3pez responseCode 3 200 