ussgfotcdqrmiksqygtogiyabqwmaqlqxcgsmkls page 10005 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... Please add the line ==={{subst:CURRENTDAY}} {{subst:CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{subst:CURRENTYEAR}}=== for each new day and the time the set was removed from the DYK template at the top for the newly posted set of archived hooks. This will ensure all times are based on UTC time and accurate. This page should be archived once a month. Thanks. 31 August 2017 00:00, 31 August 2017 (UTC) O'Toole's Pub ... that after gunmen murdered her father in a pub (pictured), Irish politician Emma Rogan campaigned with the Loughinisland Justice Group to uncover their identities? ... that the mobile library Street Books uses library cards but does not set or enforce due dates? ... that producer Mara Brock Akil was hesitant to cast Tia Mowry as Melanie Barnett due to the actress's wholesome image from Sister, Sister? ... that the former Imperial Square of Strasbourg is decorated with ginkgos that were presented by Emperor Meiji of Japan to the German Emperor? ... that in 1975, Barbara May Cameron, a member of the Hunkpapa Lakota, co-founded the first gay Indian organization in San Francisco? ... that populations of the little green woodpecker in Africa are increasing due to logging and clearing of the forests? ... that in the 1920s, Dolly Rudeman was one of the most prolific designers of movie posters and programs for the Dutch cinema, and the only woman working in the field at the time? ... that early occupational epidemiology studies established health risk factors for gold and silver miners, chimney sweeps, and workers using asbestos? 30 August 2017 00:00, 30 August 2017 (UTC) Joseph and Amalie Joachim ... that Joseph and Amalie Joachim (pictured) received two songs from Johannes Brahms, one to begin their marriage, the other decades later to repair it? ... that the rosy razor clam tries to evade capture by rapidly burrowing deeper into the sediment? ... that in 1978, airline captain Gordon Vette rescued a Cessna pilot who was lost over the Pacific Ocean and running out of fuel? ... that supporter liaison officers are claimed to be a major factor in the 20 percent reduction of crowd disorder in Swedish football? ... that Amabel Anderson Arnold, a St. Louis lawyer and law professor, received degrees from both Benton College of Law and City College of Law and Finance within a five-day period? ... that the Catholic University of Madagascar awarded the country's first theology degree in 1961? ... that Christian William Miller, inventor of a water desalination device promoted by Franklin D. Roosevelt, was considered one of the most beautiful men in the 1940s New York gay society? ... that the Jugendkulturhaus Dynamo, a youth center in Zürich, was built from an old brewery after youth riots in the city were sparked by a grant of 61,000,000 Swiss francs to the Zürich Opera? 29 August 2017 00:00, 29 August 2017 (UTC) Alderia modesta ... that the sea slug Alderia modesta (pictured) transfers sperm to a partner by hypodermic injection? ... that Cecilia Dapaah, Ghana's minister for aviation, has vowed to start a new national carrier and make the country the aviation hub of West Africa? ... that the first Croatian fictional film, Brcko in Zagreb, is now considered lost? ... that Maria Riccarda Wesseling appeared as Gluck's Orfeo in Paris and at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus, and as Henze's Phaedra in Berlin? ... that Anne Curtis plans to perform her own stunts in the upcoming Philippine action film Buy Bust? ... that C. Louise Boehringer, the first female Superintendent of Schools in Yuma County, has often been called "the mother of the Arizona educational system"? ... that video game walkthroughs are typically designed to assist other players in accomplishing certain feats within video games? ... that pirate John Bear married "a strumpet ... daughter of a rum-punch-woman" and tried to convince people she was a runaway noblewoman? 28 August 2017 00:00, 28 August 2017 (UTC) St Peter's Church, Henfield, West Sussex ... that when St Peter's Church (pictured) in Henfield needed a bell in the 17th century, the churchwarden stole one from St Leonard's Church in Aldrington? ... that suspected anarchist Lazarus Averbuch was shot and killed in the home of Chicago's Chief of Police? ... that the History of Medicine Society, founded by Sir William Osler in 1912, is one of the oldest in the world? ... that juvenile angular brittle stars can re-enter a plankton phase, allowing them to relocate to a more suitable location? ... that Mervyn Brogan was the first Australian Chief of the General Staff to have a university degree? ... that the Stadttheater Minden, a municipal theatre without an ensemble, received international attention for its Wagner opera project? ... that Howard B. Meek was the founder and dean of the first college to train professional hotel managers? ... that the prize in a tournament of Urban Jungle, a driving game developed and set in Croatia, was free real-world driving lessons? 27 August 2017 00:00, 27 August 2017 (UTC) Sydney Metro Blues ... that the Sydney Metro Blues (pictured) are the 2017 Women's National Wheelchair Basketball League champions? ... that Marcus Bosch conducted a performance of Wagner's Tristan und Isolde at the Staatstheater Nürnberg that was shown live in 50 cinemas in Germany and Austria? ... that following a failed attempt earlier in the year, the Illinois General Assembly passed a bill establishing Barack Obama Day on May 19, 2017? ... that Traci Hunter Abramson used her experience as a swim coach and a CIA employee to write Undercurrents, a novel about an Olympic-hopeful swimmer in witness protection? ... that of the 64 first-round draft picks made by the New England Patriots, 20 have been selected to play in the Pro Bowl? ... that Ghanaian Member of Parliament Kwesi Ankama died on an official government delegation to the United Kingdom? ... that the green worm Eulalia viridis does not breed until it is at least two years old? ... that Thomas Lyle Williams had the idea to create the first mascara, Maybelline, after seeing his sister Mabel use a mix of petroleum jelly and burnt cork to darken her eyelashes? 26 August 2017 00:00, 26 August 2017 (UTC) Caroline Risque ... that Caroline Risque (pictured) made the bronze busts of the four founders of Stix Baer & Fuller? ... that some scenes in Home and Away: Revenge were filmed by the actors using GoPro cameras and mobile phones? ... that art curator Ugochukwu-Smooth Nzewi described sound artist Emeka Ogboh's workⓘ as capturing "the maddening hyper-visuality of Lagos"? ... that the Japanese embassy in Seoul has seen decades of protests, from weekly demonstrations to the throwing of Molotov cocktails, truck-ramming, self-immolation, and outright ransacking? ... that at the time of her death at age 105, Emma Clara Schweer was believed to be the oldest elected official in the United States? ... that 500 copies of Vietnamese singer Son Tung M-TP's compilation album M-tp M-TP sold out in 30 minutes? ... that in 1844, Latter Day Saints founder Joseph Smith became the first Mormon to run for President of the United States and the first American presidential candidate to be assassinated? ... that the shooter game Privates was created to raise awareness about sexually transmitted infections? 25 August 2017 00:00, 25 August 2017 (UTC) Chemical structure of Regrelor ... that regrelor (pictured), a new experimental antiplatelet drug, was withdrawn during a phase II clinical trial due to an increased risk of bleeding? ... that John O'Brien presided over the m contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 72 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2017/August responseCode 3 200 