varmbmxipglijqzkooxgbsjewofscofkpakkfqic length 6 383496 page 10062 Property that makes changes possible This article is about the scalar physical quantity. For an overview of and topical guide to energy, see Outline of energy. For other uses, see Energy (disambiguation). "Energetic" redirects here. For other uses, see Energetic (disambiguation). Energy A plasma globe, using electrical energy to create plasma, light, heat, movement and a faint sound Common symbols E SI unit joule Other units kW⋅h, BTU, calorie, eV, erg, foot-pound In SI base units J = kg⋅m2⋅s−2 Extensive? yes Conserved? yes Dimension M L2 T−2 Thermodynamics The classical Carnot heat engine Branches Classical Statistical Chemical Quantum thermodynamics Equilibrium / Non-equilibrium Laws Zeroth First Second Third Systems Closed system Open system Isolated system State Equation of state Ideal gas Real gas State of matter Phase (matter) Equilibrium Control volume Instruments Processes Isobaric Isochoric Isothermal Adiabatic Isentropic Isenthalpic Quasistatic Polytropic Free expansion Reversibility Irreversibility Endoreversibility Cycles Heat engines Heat pumps Thermal efficiency System properties Note: Conjugate variables in italics Property diagrams Intensive and extensive properties Process functions Work Heat Functions of state Temperature / Entropy (introduction) Pressure / Volume Chemical potential / Particle number Vapor quality Reduced properties Material properties Property databases Specific heat capacity c = {\displaystyle c=} T {\displaystyle T} ∂ S {\displaystyle \partial S} N {\displaystyle N} ∂ T {\displaystyle \partial T} Compressibility β = − {\displaystyle \beta =-} 1 {\displaystyle 1} ∂ V {\displaystyle \partial V} V {\displaystyle V} ∂ p {\displaystyle \partial p} Thermal expansion α = {\displaystyle \alpha =} 1 {\displaystyle 1} ∂ V {\displaystyle \partial V} V {\displaystyle V} ∂ T {\displaystyle \partial T} Equations Carnot's theorem Clausius theorem Fundamental relation Ideal gas law Maxwell relations Onsager reciprocal relations Bridgman's equations Table of thermodynamic equations Potentials Free energy Free entropy Internal energy U ( S , V ) {\displaystyle U(S,V)} Enthalpy H ( S , p ) = U + p V {\displaystyle H(S,p)=U+pV} Helmholtz free energy A ( T , V ) = U − T S {\displaystyle A(T,V)=U-TS} Gibbs free energy G ( T , p ) = H − T S {\displaystyle G(T,p)=H-TS} History Culture History General Entropy Gas laws "Perpetual motion" machines Philosophy Entropy and time Entropy and life Brownian ratchet Maxwell's demon Heat death paradox Loschmidt's paradox Synergetics Theories Caloric theory Vis viva ("living force") Mechanical equivalent of heat Motive power Key publications An Experimental Enquiry Concerning ... Heat On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire Timelines Thermodynamics Heat engines Art Education Maxwell's thermodynamic surface Entropy as energy dispersal Scientists Bernoulli Boltzmann Bridgman Carathéodory Carnot Clapeyron Clausius de Donder Duhem Gibbs von Helmholtz Joule Kelvin Lewis Massieu Maxwell von Mayer Nernst Onsager Planck Rankine Smeaton Stahl Tait Thompson van der Waals Waterston Other Nucleation Self-assembly Self-organization Order and disorder Category v t e In physics, energy (from Ancient Greek ἐνέργεια (enérgeia) 'activity') is the quantitative property that is transferred to a body or to a physical system, recognizable in the performance of work and in the form of heat and light. Energy is a conserved quantity—the law of conservation of energy states that energy can be converted in form, but not created or destroyed. The unit of measurement for energy in the International System of Units (SI) is the joule (J). Common forms of energy include the kinetic energy of a moving object, the potential energy stored by an object (for instance due to its position in a field), the elastic energy stored in a solid object, chemical energy associated with chemical reactions, the radiant energy carried by electromagnetic radiation, and the internal energy contained within a thermodynamic system. All living organisms constantly take in and release energy. Due to mass–energy equivalence, any object that has mass when stationary (called rest mass) also has an equivalent amount of energy whose form is called rest energy, and any additional energy (of any form) acquired by the object above that rest energy will increase the object's total mass just as it increases its total energy. Human civilization requires energy to function, which it gets from energy resources such as fossil fuels, nuclear fuel, or renewable energy. The Earth's climate and ecosystems processes are driven by the energy the planet receives from the Sun (although a small amount is also contributed by geothermal energy). Forms This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2016) (template removal help) In a typical lightning strike, 500 megajoules of electric potential energy is converted into the same amount of energy in other forms, mostly light energy, sound energy and thermal energy. Thermal energy is energy of microscopic constituents of matter, which may include both kinetic and potential energy. The total energy of a system can be subdivided and classified into potential energy, kinetic energy, or combinations of the two in various ways. Kinetic energy is determined by the movement of an object – or the composite motion of the components of an object – and potential energy reflects the potential of an object to have motion, and generally is a function of the position of an object within a field or may be stored in the field itself. While these two categories are sufficient to describe all forms of energy, it is often convenient to refer to particular combinations of potential and kinetic energy as its own form. For example, the sum of translational and rotational kinetic and potential energy within a system is referred to as mechanical energy, whereas nuclear energy refers to the combined potentials within an atomic nucleus from either the nuclear force or the weak force, among other examples.[1] Some forms of energy (that an object or system can have as a measurable property) Type of energy Description Mechanical the sum of macroscopic translational and rotational kinetic and potential energies Electric potential energy due to or stored in electric fields Magnetic potential energy due to or stored in magnetic fields Gravitational potential energy due to or stored in gravitational fields Chemical potential energy due to chemical bonds Ionization potential energy that binds an electron to its atom or molecule Nuclear potential energy that binds nucleons to form the atomic nucleus (and nuclear reactions) Chromodynamic potential energy that binds quarks to form hadrons Elastic potential energy due to the deformation of a material (or its container) exhibiting a restorative force as it returns to its original shape Mechanical wave kinetic and potential energy in an elastic material due to a propagating oscillation of matter Sound wave kinetic and potential energy in a material due to a sound propagated wave (a particular type of mechanical wave) Radiant potential energy stored in the fields of waves propagated by electromagnetic radiation, including light Rest potential energy due to an object's rest mass Thermal kinetic energy of the microscopic motion of particles, a kind of disordered equivalent of mechanical energy History Main articles: History of energy and timeline of thermodynamics, statistical mechanics, and random processes Thomas Young, the first person to use the term "energy" in the modern sense The word energy derives from the Ancient Greek: ἐνέργεια, romanized: energeia, lit. 'activity, operation',[2] which possibly appears for the first time in the work of Aristotle in the 4th century BC. In contrast to the modern definition, energeia was a qualitative philosophical concept, broad enough to include ideas such as happiness and pleasure. In the late 17th century, Gottfried Leibniz proposed the idea of the Latin: vis viva, or living force, which defined as the product of the mass of an object and its velocity squared; he believed that total vis viva was conserved. To account for slowing due to friction, Leibniz theorized that thermal energy consisted of the motions of the constituent parts of matter, although it would be more than a century until this was generally accepted. The modern analog of this property, kinetic energy, differs from vis viva only by a factor of two. Writing in the early 18th century, Émilie du Châtelet proposed the concept of conservation of energy in the marginalia of her French language translation of Newton's Principia Mathematica, which represented the first formulation of a conserved measurable quantity that was distinct from momentum, and which would later be called "energy". In 1807, Thomas Young was possibly the first to use the term "energy" instead of vis viva, in its modern sense.[3] Gustave-Gaspard Coriolis described "kinetic energy" in 1829 in its modern sense, and in 1853, William Rankine coined the term "potential energy". The law of conservation of energy was also first postulated in the early 19th century, and applies to any isolated system. It was argued for some years whether heat was a physical substance, dubbed the caloric, or merely a physical quantity, such as momentum. In 1845 James Prescott Joule discovered the link between mechanical work and the generation of heat. These developments led to the theory of conservation of energy, formalized largely by William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) as the field of thermodynamics. Thermodynamics aided the rapid development of explanations of chemical processes by Rudolf Clausius, Josiah Willard Gibbs, and Walther Nernst. It also led to a mathematical formulation of the concept of entropy by Clausius and to the intr contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 40 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Energy responseCode 3 200 