vccgpovkpqmaikuewmdibatengwidaimiofevgeg page 10248 Overview of the events of 1945 in literature This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "1945 in literature" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2013) (template removal help) Overview of the events of 1945 in literature List of years in literature (table) … 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 … In poetry 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 Art Archaeology Architecture Literature Music Philosophy Science +... This article contains information about the literary events and publications of 1945. Events[edit] January – In Paris, journalist and poet Robert Brasillach is tried and found guilty of "intelligence with the (German) enemy" during World War II, sparking a major dispute in French society over collaboration and clemency.[1] c. January 1 – Jean-Paul Sartre refuses the Légion d'honneur. January 27 – Primo Levi is among those liberated from the Auschwitz concentration camp complex. February – Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn is sentenced to eight years in a labour camp for criticizing Joseph Stalin. February 13–15 – The bombing of Dresden in World War II is seen by the German Jewish diarist Victor Klemperer, the novelist Kurt Vonnegut as an American prisoner of war, and Miles Tripp as a British bomb aimer. It will feature in Józef Mackiewicz's novel Sprawa pulkownika Miasojedowa (Colonel Miasoyedov's Case, 1962), Bohumil Hrabal's Ostře sledované vlaky (Closely Observed Trains, 1965) and Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death (1969). March 4 – Poet Pablo Neruda is elected a Chilean senator and officially joins the Communist Party of Chile four months later. March 8 – Federico García Lorca's play The House of Bernarda Alba, completed just before his assassination in 1936, is first performed, in Buenos Aires. March 31 – Tennessee Williams' semi-autobiographical "memory play" The Glass Menagerie (1944, adapted from a short story) opens on Broadway at the Playhouse Theatre (New York City), starring Laurette Taylor and winning the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award.[2] About end March – Jack Kerouac and William S. Burroughs complete their mystery novel And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks, a fictionalization of manslaughter committed in 1944 by their friend Lucien Carr, but it will not appear fully until 2008.[3] May – The Estonian poet Heiti Talvik is deported to Siberia and never heard of again. May 2 The expatriate American poet Ezra Pound is arrested by the Italian resistance movement and taken to its headquarters in Chiavari, but soon released as of no interest.[4] On May 5, he turns himself in to the United States Army. He is held in a military detention camp outside Pisa, spending 25 days in an open cage before being given a tent. There he appears to suffer a nervous breakdown. While in the camp he drafts The Pisan Cantos. French novelist Colette is the first woman admitted to the Académie Goncourt. May 8 – The occupying powers in Allied-occupied Germany and Austria impose publishing curbs as part of denazification.[5] June – Ern Malley hoax: Australia's most celebrated literary hoax takes place when Angry Penguins is published with poems by the fictional Ern Malley. Poets James McAuley and Harold Stewart created the poems from lines of other published work and then sent them as the purported work of a recently deceased poet. The hoax is played on Max Harris, at this time a 22-year-old avant garde poet and critic who had started the modernist magazine Angry Penguins. Harris and his circle of literary friends agreed that a hitherto completely unknown modernist poet of great merit had come to light in suburban Australia. The Autumn 1944 edition of the magazine with the poems comes out in mid-1945 due to wartime printing delays with cover illustration by Sidney Nolan. An Australian newspaper uncovers the hoax within weeks. McAuley and Stewart loved early Modernist poets but despise later modernism and especially the well-funded Angry Penguins and are jealous of Harris's precocious success.[6] c. July – Theatre Workshop is formed in the north of England by Joan Littlewood, Ewan MacColl and other former members of Theatre Union as a touring company. August 17 – The allegorical dystopian novella Animal Farm by George Orwell, a satire on Stalinism, is first published by Fredric Warburg in London. September 11 – The Citizens Theatre opens in Glasgow under this name. September – J. B. Priestley's drama An Inspector Calls is premièred in Russian translation in Leningrad.[7] October 29 – Vladimir Nabokov's 1940 application for U.S. citizenship is granted.[8] November 1 – The U.S. magazine Ebony appears. November 21 – André Malraux is named Minister of Information by the new French President, Charles de Gaulle.[9] November 26 – The U.K. film Brief Encounter, adapted from Noël Coward's short play Still Life, is released. November – Astrid Lindgren's children's book Pippi Långstrump, with illustrations by Ingrid Vang Nyman, is published in Sweden by Rabén & Sjögren, having won a competition run by the publisher for children's books in August. It introduces an anarchic child heroine. An English translation appears as Pippi Longstocking. December – Nag Hammadi library, a collection of Gnostic texts, is discovered in Upper Egypt.[10] Canadian author Elizabeth Smart's novel in prose poetry By Grand Central Station I Sat Down and Wept is published in London (U.K.); the writer's mother Louise leads a successful campaign with government officials to have the book banned in Canada, buying up as many copies as she can find of those that make their way into the country and having them burned.[11] New books[edit] 1st ed. Fiction[edit] Ivo Andrić The Bridge on the Drina (Na Drini Ćuprija) Travnička hronika (Travnik Chronicle, Bosnian Chronicle, Bosnian Story, The Days of the Consuls) Gospođica (The Young Lady, The Woman from Sarajevo) Nigel Balchin – Mine Own Executioner Charlotte Armstrong – The Innocent Flower Banine – Caucasian days (Jours caucasiens) Frans G. Bengtsson – The Long Ships (Röde Orm), part 2 Adolfo Bioy Casares – A Plan for Escape (Plan de evasión) Robert Bloch – The Opener of the Way (anthology) Arna Bontemps – Anyplace But Here Victor Bridges – Trouble on the Thames Hermann Broch – The Death of Virgil (Der Tod des Vergil) Gwendolyn Brooks – A Street in Bronzeville Taylor Caldwell – The Wide House John Dickson Carr (as Carter Dickson) – The Curse of the Bronze Lamp Winifred Carter – Princess Fitz Vera Caspary – Bedelia Peter Cheyney I'll Say She Does Night Club Sinister Errand Agatha Christie – Sparkling Cyanide Thomas B. Costain – The Black Rose Gertrude Crampton – Tootle Edmund Crispin – Holy Disorders Freeman Wills Crofts – Enemy Unseen Sergiu Dan – Unde începe noaptea Simone de Beauvoir – The Blood of Others (Le Sang des autres) August Derleth "In Re: Sherlock Holmes" – The Adventures of Solar Pons Something Near C. S. Forester – The Commodore (also Commodore Hornblower) Varian Fry – Surrender on Demand Anthony Gilbert – Don't Open the Door Rumer Godden – A Fugue in Time Julien Gracq – A Dark Stranger Winston Graham – The Forgotten Story Henry Green – Loving James Hilton – So Well Remembered Chester Himes – If He Hollers Let Him Go Dorothy B. Hughes – Dread Journey Leonhard Huizinga [nl] – Six Candles for Indonesia Michael Innes – Appleby's End Ruth Krauss – The Carrot Seed Margery Lawrence – Number Seven, Queer Street Robert Lawson – Rabbit Hill J. Sheridan Le Fanu (d. 1873) – Green Tea and Other Ghost Stories C. S. Lewis – That Hideous Strength E. C. R. Lorac – Murder by Matchlight H. P. Lovecraft and August Derleth – The Lurker at the Threshold Compton Mackenzie – The North Wind of Love, Book 2 (last of The Four Winds of Love hexalogy) Hugh MacLennan – Two Solitudes Ngaio Marsh – Died in the Wool Gladys Mitchell – The Rising of the Moon Nancy Mitford – The Pursuit of Love R. K. Narayan – The English Teacher George Orwell – Animal Farm Gabrielle Roy – Bonheur d'occasion (The Tin Flute) Jean-Paul Sartre – L'Âge de raison (The Age of Reason) Elizabeth Smart – By Grand Central Station I Sat Down and Wept John Steinbeck – Cannery Row Noel Streatfeild – Saplings Cecil Street – Bricklayer's Arms Julian Symons – The Immaterial Murder Case James Thurber – The Thurber Carnival (anthology) Tarjei Vesaas – The House in the Dark Elio Vittorini – Uomini e no (Men and not Men) Mika Waltari – The Egyptian (Sinuhe egyptiläinen) Evangeline Walton – Witch House Evelyn Waugh – Brideshead Revisited Charles Williams – All Hallows' Eve Cornell Woolrich – Night Has a Thousand Eyes Children and young people[edit] Rev. W. Awdry – The Three Railway Engines (first in 42 Railway Series books by Awdry and his son Christopher Awdry) Selina Chönz and Alois Carigiet – Uorsin (Schellen-Ursli. Ein Engadiner Bilderbuch, translated as A Bell for Ursli) Marguerite Henry – Justin Morgan Had a Horse Tove Jansson – The Moomins and the Great Flood (Småtrollen och den stora översvämningen, first in the Moomin series of 14 books)[12] Jim Kjelgaard – Big Red Ruth Krauss – The Carrot Seed Robert Lawson – Rabbit Hill Lois Lenski – Strawberry Girl Astrid Lindgren – Pippi Longstocking (Pippi Långstrump, first in the Pippi Longstocking series of three full-length and six picture books) E. B. White – Stuart Little Drama[edit] Jacinto Benavente – La infanzona Mary Chase – Harvey Warren Chetham-Strode – Young Mrs. Barrington Campbell Christie and Dorothy Christie – Grand National Night Eduardo De Filippo – Napoli milionaria ("The Millions of Naples") Norman Ginsbury – The First Gentleman Jean Giraudoux (died 1944) – The Madwoman of Chaillot (La Folle de Chaillot) Curt Goetz – The House in Montevideo (Das Haus in Montevideo) Walter Greenwood – The Cure for Love Arthur Laurents – Home of the contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/1945_in_literature responseCode 3 200 