vckefcggrchevqwmvexaxolibogqlepixiukhebq length 6 217187 page 10044 Economic service provided by the finance industry For the Hong Kong constituency, see Financial Services (constituency). Part of a series on Finance Markets Assets Bond Commodity Derivatives Foreign exchange Money Over-the-counter Private equity Real estate Spot Stock Participants Investor institutional Retail Speculator Locations Financial centres Offshore financial centres Conduit and sink OFCs Instruments Bond Cash Collateralised debt obligation Credit default swap Time deposit (certificate of deposit) Credit line Deposit Derivative Futures contract Indemnity Insurance Letter of credit Loan Mortgage Option (call exotic put) Performance bonds Repurchase agreement Stock Security Syndicated loan Synthetic CDO Corporate General Accounting Audit Capital budgeting Credit rating agency Risk management Financial statements Transactions Leveraged buyout Mergers and acquisitions Structured finance Venture capital Taxation Base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) Corporate tax haven Tax inversion Tax haven Transfer pricing Personal Credit / Debt Employment contract Financial planning Retirement Student loan Public Government spending Final consumption expenditure Operations Redistribution Transfer payment Government revenue Taxation Deficit spending Budget (balance) Debt Non-tax revenue Warrant of payment Banking Central bank Deposit account Fractional-reserve Full-reserve Loan Money supply Lists of banks Bank regulation Banking license Basel Accords Bank for International Settlements Financial Stability Board Deposit insurance Separation of investment and retail banking Regulation · Financial law International Financial Reporting Standards ISO 31000 Professional certification Fund governance Economic history Private equity and venture capital Recession Stock market bubble Stock market crash Accounting scandals Business and Economics portal Money portal v t e Financial services are economic services tied to finance provided by financial institutions. Financial services encompass a broad range of service sector activities, especially as concerns financial management and consumer finance. The finance industry in its most common sense concerns national banks and large commercial banks who provide market liquidity, risk instruments, and brokerage for large public companies and multinational corporations at a macroeconomic scale that impacts domestic politics and foreign relations. The extragovernmental clout and scale of the finance industry remains an ongoing controversy in many industrialized Western economies, as seen in the American Occupy Wall Street civil protest movement of 2011. Styles of financial institution include credit union, bank, savings and loan association, trust company, building society, brokerage firm, payment processor, many types of broker, and some government-sponsored enterprise.[1] Financial services include accountancy, investment banking, investment management, and personal asset management. Financial products include insurance, credit cards, mortgage loans, and pension funds. Financial Services Authority Seychelles logo on building History[edit] See also: Global financial system § History of international financial architecture Change in access to a financial account or services between 2005 and 2014 by country[2] The term "financial services" became more prevalent in the United States partly as a result of the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act of the late 1990s, which enabled different types of companies operating in the U.S. financial services industry at that time to merge.[3] Companies usually have two distinct approaches to this new type of business. One approach would be a bank that simply buys an insurance company or an investment bank, keeps the original brands of the acquired firm, and adds the acquisition to its holding company simply to diversify its earnings. Outside the U.S. (e.g. Japan), non-financial services companies are permitted within the holding company. In this scenario, each company still looks independent and has its own customers, etc. In the other style, a bank would simply create its own insurance division or brokerage division and attempt to sell those products to its own existing customers, with incentives for combining all things with one company. Relationship to the government[edit] The financial sector is traditionally among those to receive government support in times of widespread economic crisis. Such bailouts, however, enjoy less public support than those for other industries.[4] Banks[edit] Main article: Bank Commercial banking services[edit] Main article: Commercial bank A commercial bank is what is commonly referred to as simply a bank. The term "commercial" is used to distinguish it from an investment bank, a type of financial services entity which instead of lending money directly to a business, helps businesses raise money from other firms in the form of bonds (debt) or share capital (equity). The primary operations of commercial banks include: Keeping money safe while also allowing withdrawals when needed Issuance of chequebooks so that bills can be paid and other kinds of payments can be delivered by the post Provide personal loans, commercial loans, and mortgage loans (typically loans to purchase a home, property or business) Issuance of credit cards, processing of credit card transactions and billing Issuance of debit cards for use as a substitute for cheques Allow financial transactions at branches or by using automatic teller machines (ATMs) Provide wire transfers of funds and electronic fund transfers between banks Facilitation of standing orders and direct debits, so payments for bills can be made automatically Provide overdraft agreements for the temporary advancement of the bank's own money to meet the monthly spending commitments of a customer in their current account. Provide internet banking system to facilitate customers to view and operate their respective accounts through the internet. Provide charge card advances of the bank's own money for customers wishing to settle credit advances monthly. Provide a check guaranteed by the bank itself and prepaid by the customer, such as a cashier's check or certified check. Notary service for financial and other documents Accepting deposits from customers and providing credit facilities to them. Sell investment products like mutual funds Etc. The United States is the largest location for commercial banking services. Investment banking services[edit] Singapore financial district by night (25449263528) Main article: Investment banking Underwriting debt and equity for the private and public sector for such entities to raise capital. Mergers and acquisitions – Work to underwrite and advise companies on mergers or takeovers. Structured finance – Develop intricate (typically derivative) products for high net worth individuals and institutions with more intricate financial needs. Restructuring – Assist in financially reorganizing companies Investment management – Management of assets (e.g., real estate) to meet specified investment goals of clients. Securities research – Maintain their own department that services to assist their traders, clients and maintain a public stance on specific securities and industries. Broker Services – Buy and sell securities on behalf of their clients (sometimes may involve financial consulting as well). Prime brokerage – An exclusive type of bundled broker service specifically meant to service the needs of hedge funds. Private banking – Private banks provide banking services exclusively to high-net-worth individuals. Many financial services firms require a person or family to have a certain minimum net worth to qualify for private banking service. New York City and London are the largest centers of investment banking services. NYC is dominated by U.S. domestic business, while in London international business and commerce make up a significant portion of investment banking activity.[5] Foreign exchange services[edit] Foreign exchange machine FX or Foreign exchange services are provided by many banks and specialists foreign exchange brokers around the world. Foreign exchange services include: Currency exchange – where clients can purchase and sell foreign currency banknotes. Wire transfer – where clients can send funds to international banks abroad. Remittance – where clients that are migrant workers send money back to their home country. London handled 36.7% of global currency transactions in 2009[update] – an average daily turnover of US$1.85 trillion – with more US dollars traded in London than New York, and more Euros traded than in every other city in Europe combined.[6][7][8][9][10] Investment services[edit] Collective investment fund – A fund that acts as an investment pool so investors can put money into a fund that will reinvest it into a variety of securities based upon their common, outlined investment goal. Investment Advisory Offices – Run by registered investment advisors who advise clients in financial planning and invest their money. Hedge fund management – Hedge funds often employ the services of "prime brokerage" divisions at major investment banks to execute their trades. Private equity – Private equity funds are typically closed-end funds, which usually take controlling equity stakes in businesses that are either private or taken private once acquired. Private equity funds often use leveraged buyouts (LBOs) to acquire the firms in which they invest. The most successful private equity funds can generate returns significantly higher than provided by the equity markets. Venture capital – Private equity capital typically provided by professional, outside investors to new, high-growth-potential companies in the interest of taking the company to an IPO or trade sale of the business. Startup companies are typically fueled by an angel investor. Family office – Investment and wealth management firm that handles a wealthy family or small group of wealthy individuals with financ contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Financial_services responseCode 3 200 