vevgfeqobozgegtgnidovisqvgxcrcmebmioecuc length 6 262142 page 10032 Executive authority of Spain Government of Spain Spanish: Gobierno de España Co-official languages Basque: Espainiako Gobernua Catalan: Govern d'Espanya Galician: Goberno de España Logo of the Government of Spain Role Executive power Established 15 January 1834; 189 years ago (1834-01-15) Country Kingdom of Spain Appointed by Monarch Main organ Council of Ministers Responsible to Cortes Generales Constitution instrument Government Act of 1997 Cabinet Members Sánchez Government Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez Deputy Prime Minister Nadia Calviño Number of members 23 (2019–2023) Administration Working language Spanish Staff organization Ministries Location Madrid, Spain Seat Moncloa Palace (since 1977) Website Official website Politics of Spain Constitution Constitution Constitutional Court President Cándido Conde-Pumpido Vice President Inmaculada Montalbán Huertas Constitutional history Spanish transition to democracy Human rights Taxation Law Abortion Nationality Capital punishment Life imprisonment The Crown Royal Household The Monarch (list) Felipe VI Heir presumptive (list) Leonor, Princess of Asturias Royal family Succession to the Spanish throne Executive Government of the Nation Prime Minister (list) Pedro Sánchez Deputy Prime Minister (list) Nadia Calviño (first) Yolanda Díaz (second) Teresa Ribera (third) Council of Ministers Sánchez III Government Ministries Government Delegations Government Delegated Committees Interministerial Committees Spanish prime-ministerial transition List of agencies in Spain Council of State Economic and Social Council Legislature Cortes Generales (14th Cortes Generales) Senate (14th Senate) Speaker (list) Ander Gil Congress of Deputies (14th Congress) Speaker (list) Meritxell Batet Parliamentary groups Permanent Deputation Bureaus of the Cortes Generales Board of Spokespersons People's Defender (ombudsman) Solemn Opening of the Parliament of Spain Judiciary General Council of the Judiciary Supreme Court President (list) Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Vice President Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Audiencia Nacional High courts of justice Court of Auditors Prosecution Ministry Euro European Central Bank Bank of Spain Governor of the Bank of Spain Pablo Hernández de Cos Deputy Governor of the Bank of Spain Margarita Delgado Tejero Royal Mint of Spain Administrative subdivisions Autonomous communities Legislatures Governments Presidents Autonomous cities Provinces Comarcas Municipalities Plazas de soberanía Elections Political parties Recent elections General: 2019 (Apr) 2019 (Nov) 2023 Regional: 2015 2019 2023 European: 2014 2019 2024 Referendums: 1978 1986 2005 Foreign relations Foreign relations Diplomatic missions of Spain in Spain Politics of the European Union Related topics Political parties: PP PSOE Podemos C's Spanish transition to democracy Francoist Spain Anarchism in Spain Liberalism and radicalism in Spain Spanish Civil War Nationalisms and regionalisms of Spain: Basque Catalan Galician Catalan independence movement (Spanish constitutional crisis of 2017–18) Disputed status of Gibraltar Republicanism in Spain (Second Spanish Republic) Spain portal Other countries v t e The government of Spain (Spanish: Gobierno de España) is the central government which leads the executive branch and the General State Administration of the Kingdom of Spain. The Government consists of the Prime Minister and the Ministers; the prime minister has the overall direction of the Ministers and can appoint or terminate their appointments freely and all of them belong to the supreme decision-making body, known as the Council of Ministers. The Government is responsible before the Parliament (Cortes Generales), and more precisely before the Congress of the Deputies, a body which elects the Prime Minister or dismisses them through a motion of censure. This is because Spain is a parliamentary system established by the Constitution of 1978. Its fundamental regulation is placed in Title IV of the Constitution, as well as in Title V of that document, with respect to its relationship with the Cortes Generales, and in Law 50/1997, of 27 November, of the Government. According to Article 97 of the Constitution and Article 1.1 of the Government Act, "the Government directs domestic and foreign policy, the civil and military administration and the defense of the State. It exercises the executive function and the regulatory regulation according to the Constitution and the laws". The current prime minister is Pedro Sánchez, who took office on 2 June 2018.[1] He is the leader of the Socialist Workers' Party. The Government is occasionally referred to by the metonymy Moncloa, due to the fact that the residence of the Prime Minister, the Palace of Moncloa, is also the headquarters of the Government. Principles[edit] The Government's performance is governed by the following operating principles:[2] Principle of presidential direction: The Prime Minister directs the Ministers and can appoint or dismiss them freely. Principle of responsibility: The Prime Minister responds politically to the Congress of Deputies for the action of the Government. The eventual cessation of the Prime Minister implies the cessation of the Government. Principle of collegiality: The Government, understood as Council of Ministers, is a collegiate body composed of a plurality of members of the Government. Principle of solidarity: The Government responds in solidum for the action of each one of the members of the Government. Departmental principle: The members of the Government, as well as members of this collegiate body, are also the heads of a department in charge of a more or less homogeneous area of competence. Government in Parliament[edit] Control sessions in the Cortes Generales Senate Congress of Deputies The Kingdom of Spain is a constitutional monarchy in which executive decisions are made by the Government. More specifically, the Spanish Constitution describes Spain's form of government as "Monarquía parlamentaria,"[3] or parliamentary monarchy, in which the monarch acts as a moderator rather than a source of executory authority. Spain possesses an asymmetric bicameral parliament, called the "Cortes Generales," composed of the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. While both the Congress and Senate propose legislation, albeit by different procedural mechanisms, the Government has the right to be consulted for such proposals. The Government may also propose law directly. A Government-sponsored bill is known as a proyecto de ley, contrasting with a proposición de ley which is offered by a house of parliament. Neither the prime minister nor the ministers need to be members of parliament,[4] but the Government must account to both the Senate and Congress every week in a parliamentary meeting known as a sesión de control (control session) (Part V § 108). Questioning minor-rank ministers, such as Secretaries of State or Under Secretaries, must be done in Parliamentary Committees.[5][6] While the prime minister is typically elected from the members of Congress, the current prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, was not a member of either chamber for the first year of his premiership.[7] Under the parliamentary system, the Government is required to maintain the confidence of the Congress of Deputies. In the absence of such confidence, the Government may fall or prove unable to pass legislation. There are two procedures to ascertain the Congress's confidence in the Government: the motion of no-confidence (Part V § 113), by which members of parliament can ask the Congress to rescind its confidence in the prime minister and to elect another, and the question of confidence (Part V § 112), by which the prime minister asks the Congress if it supports the Government's political programs generally or a specific piece of legislation. A loss by the Government in either case may result in the removal of the prime minister. The Government and the Crown[edit] Royal prerogative of assent and enact laws King Juan Carlos I assenting to and enacting a law... ... and PM Rajoy countersigning the law. The Spanish monarch, currently King Felipe VI, is the head of state and the commander-in-chief of the armed forces. As a monarch of a parliamentary monarchy, the executive power does not belong to The Crown and is independent from it. The Constitution gives the monarch a symbolic role, but also a moderating role, being able to intervene if there is a conflict between the country's institutions (Part II § 56). As commander-in-chief of the armed forces, former King Juan Carlos I suppressed the 23-F Spanish coup d'état attempt in February 1981, showing that the monarch has more power than the constitution grants him. The heir presumptive is Leonor, Princess of Asturias. The Constitution also gives the monarch some powers known as Royal Prerogatives. These prerogatives range from the signing of international treaties, to declaring war and making peace or to dissolving the parliament. However, with the arrival of democracy, these prerogatives have been regulated and most of them must be countersigned by an official. Although the monarch is not part of the executive power, the prime minister has weekly meetings with him to inform him about the Government's activity and the King can express his opinion.[8] In the same sense, the monarch is normally invited to the first Council of Ministers of every new government (and others if the prime ministers wants to) and to the meetings of bodies such as the National Security Council or the National Defence Council. The Royal prerogatives are: Domestic powers[edit] The power to appoint and dismiss the prime minister. This power is exercised by the monarch himself. By convention he appoints the individual with most support of the Congress. The power to dismiss and appoint other ministers. This power is exercised by the monarch on the advice of the prime minister. The power to assent to and enact laws by giving Royal Assent to Bills pas contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Government_of_Spain responseCode 3 200 