visgniymjcoapkukdihmxqgkskuorevktknmpgjk page 10987 National seal of Myanmar This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "State Seal of Myanmar" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2009) (template removal help) This article contains Burmese script. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Burmese script. State Seal of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Armiger Republic of the Union of Myanmar Adopted 2011[1][2] Crest A mullet Or Blazon Gule, a map of Myanmar Or surrounded by sprigs of Eugenia[3] of the same Supporters Two lion sejant Or Motto ပြည်ထောင်စု သမ္မတ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော် (• literally, "Union, President, State of Myanmar"; • officially, "Republic of the Union of Myanmar") Earlier version(s) 1948–1974 1974–1988 1988–2011 The State Seal of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar (Burmese: ပြည်ထောင်စုသမ္မတမြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော် နိုင်ငံတော်အထိမ်းအမှတ်တံဆိပ်) is the national emblem used in all official government documents, including publications. As the seal is an official symbol, there are State Seal Law and Principles regarding appropriate usage of it. Description[edit] See also: § Symbolism (historical and current) At the centre of the Seal is the map of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar. The sprigs of Eugenia containing fourteen leaves each are on either side of the map. The sprigs of Eugenia are flanked on each side by an artistic Myanmar lion. The lion on the left side faces towards the left and the lion on the right side faces towards the right The name of the country in Burmese, ပြည်ထောင်စု သမ္မတ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော်, is expressed on the ribbon at the foot of the Seal. The expression ပြည်ထောင်စု is on the scroll which is under the left lion. The expression သမ္မတ is under the map. The expression မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော် is under the right lion. The large yellow five-pointed star indicating above uprightly is at the top of the Seal. The other part of the seal is surrounded by Myanmar traditional floral arabesques.[3] Usage[edit] The State seal can be used for the following: Can be used in the Presidential Palace. Can be used in/on the vehicles of the president. Can be used in the Central Parliament Buildings (Pyidaungsu Hluttaw, Pyithu Hluttaw and Amyotha Hluttaw), the union level government offices, State and Region Hluttaw Buildings, Offices of State and Region Government, Self-Administered Zones and Divisions. Can be used in ministries and their child agencies' offices, in the courts and the organizations and departments which are allowed to use by the Union Government. Can be used in Myanmar Embassies, consulates and one other representations. Can be printed on the objects which are used in State Receptions. Can be used in bank notes and stamps. Can be used by the organizations which are allowed use by the president. Can be used in the official documents of Central Parliaments and State & Region, the Union Government and the ministries, the State, Region and SAZ and SAD Governments, the organizations and department which are allowed by the union government. Can be used in State meetings and ceremonies.[3] History[edit] Before 1948[edit] Konbaung dynasty[edit] The previous state symbol of Burmese monarchs was the green peacock. Late kings of Konbaung dynasty adopted the circular State Seal bearing a peacock on the sun surrounded by the text: မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတံဆိပ်တော်.[4][5] British Burma[edit] Government seal Armiger Province of Burma, British Indian Empire British Burma Adopted 1886 Relinquished 1948 Crest A royal crown proper Blazon Quarterly, I and IV Gules, three lions passant guardant in pale Or langued and armed Azure. II Or a lion rampant Gules armed and langued Azure within a double tressure flory-counter-flory Gules. III Azure a harp Or stringed Argent. Supporters On the dexter a lion rampant guardant Or langued and armed Gules, royally crowned Proper. On the sinister a Unicorn rampant Argent armed crined and unguled Or, and gorged with a Coronet composed of crosses patee and fleurs-de-lis, a chain affixed thereto passing through the forelegs and reflexed over the back Or Motto French: Dieu et mon droit, lit. 'God and my right' Order(s) Order of the Garter Badge of Burma (1939–1941), (1945–1948) After being annexed by the British Empire, the royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom replaced the place of State seal. After Burma was separated from India, the green peacock on a yellow was adopted as the national symbol and badge of Burma, in 1939. But the State Seal was still the coat of arms of United Kingdom. Japanese puppet state[edit] State Seal of the State of Burma (1943–1945) The State of Burma, a Japanese puppet state, adopted the circular seal bearing stylized golden peacock as the State seal in 1943. Current design[edit] The current design of the State Seal was first introduced at the Constituent Assembly of the Union of Burma in 1947.[6]: 8  4 January 1948 — 3 January 1974[edit] State Seal of the Union of Burma Armiger Union of Burma Adopted 1948 Relinquished 1974 Crest A lion sejant Azure Blazon Azure, a map of Myanmar Argent between two areas, surrounded by a circle Gules that bears the State motto: သမဂ္ဂါနံ တပေါ သုခေါ Supporters Two lion sejant Argent Motto သမဂ္ဂါနံ တပေါ သုခေါ (samaggānaṃ topo sukho) ပြည်ထောင်စု သမတ-မြန်မာ နိုင်ငံတော်။ (• literally, "Union, President-Myanmar, State"; • formally, "Republic of the Union of Myanmar") The State Seal of Burma, approved by the Constituent Assembly in 1947,[6]: 8  contained the Burmese text ပြည်ထောင်စု သမတမြန်မာ နိုင်ငံတော်။ on the banner, which means "Republic of Union of Myanmar" (the same as the text in the current State Seal except the spelling of the word that mean President or Republic: သမတ), as well as three lions. Additionally, there was a circle surrounding the map of the country containing Verse 194 of the Buddhavagga in the Dhammapada in Pali: သမဂ္ဂါနံ တပေါ သုခေါ (samaggānaṃ tapo sukho), which translates to "Happy is the practice of those in harmony."[7] It was adopted at the independence of the country on 4 January 1948. 3 January 1974 — 19 October 1988[edit] State Seal of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma Versions official colour later interpretation Armiger Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma Adopted 1974 Relinquished 1988 Crest A mullet Or Blazon Or, a map of Myanmar Or in a field Sable surrounded by a pinion Or which is also surrounded by paddy ears Or Supporters Two lion sejant Or Motto ပြည်ထောင်စု ဆိုရှယ်လစ်သမ္မတ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော် (• literally, "Union, Socialist President, State of Myanmar"; • formally, "Socialist Republic of the Union of Myanmar") Earlier version(s) 1948-1974 The 1974 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma adopted a new State Seal[8] with Socialist symbols : a pinion (cogwheel) with 14 teeth, surrounding the map of Myanmar, surrounded by two paddy ears, the two artistic Burmese lions besides the branches: The left lion facing to the left and the right lion facing to the right, The words ပြည်ထောင်စု ဆိုရှယ်လစ်သမ္မတ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော်, which means "Socialist Republic of the Union of Myanmar", on the ribbon banner at the bottom.[9] It was adopted together with the new State flag and the 1974 constitution on 3 January 1974. The original publications of 1974 constitution shows the State flag with full colours, but it shows the State seal only in white and black.[8] But in the official usage, it is always yellow and black.[10] The e-book version of the 1974 constitution from Myanmar Law Information System shows the blue State seal from Wikipedia in place of the State seal. 19 October 1988 — 31 January 2011[edit] State Seal of the Union of Myanmar Armiger Union of Myanmar Adopted 1988 Relinquished 2011 Crest A mullet Or Blazon Or, a map of Myanmar Or in a field Sable surrounded by a pinion Or which is also surrounded by paddy ears Or Supporters Two lion sejant Or Motto ပြည်ထောင်စု မြန်မာ နိုင်ငံတော် (• literally, "Union, Myanmar, State"; • officially, "Union of Myanmar") Earlier version(s) 1974-1988 On 19 October 1988, the State Law and Order Restoration Council enacted a law which replaces the expression "Socialist Republic of the Union of Myanmar" with the expression "Union of Myanmar".[11] The State Seal was modified as the country name in State Seal Law had been replaced: the words ဆိုရှယ်လစ်သမ္မတ ("Socialist Republic") were removed.[5] Changes to current State Seal[edit] In 2008, the Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar for Burma was approved by a referendum. In this new constitution, changes have been made to the State Seal. The new State Seal uses the colours red and gold/yellow. Also, the pinion and paddy ears have been removed and replaced with Eugenia sprigs and the words on the ribbon have been changed to ပြည်ထောင်စု သမ္မတ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော် which translates "Republic of the Union of Myanmar" .[12] The new Laws and Principles for State Seal were passed on 21 October 2010[13] (but were not enforced immediately) and the new State Seal was displayed on the television on that day's afternoon.[14] But the new state seal had not been adopted yet until 2011.[1] It was adopted on the day the 2008 Constitution came into force, on 31 January 2011.[2][15] Symbolism (historical and current)[edit] Peafowl[edit] Peafowl symbolizes the race of the sun.[16] Lion (Leograph)[edit] The reason of the inclusion of 3 lions in the State Seal was given as follow:[6]: 10  In the traditional view of ancient sages, the nature of lion gives the natures of bravery, diligence, extinguishing any size of danger with the same effort, purity and virtue. Such characteristics can make Myanmar honoured and they are the ones that Myanmar citizens should imitate. Being surrounded by three lions means defending and protecting Myanmar. In the view of astrologist monks and persons, number three means "divisible by three" (end of contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/State_Seal_of_Myanmar responseCode 3 200 