viwqboiovknceekkhejcbmosakfogqpoweaqxgoi length 6 313689 page 10021 List of definitions of terms and concepts used in graph theory Look up Appendix:Glossary of graph theory in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. See also: Gallery of named graphs This is a glossary of graph theory. Graph theory is the study of graphs, systems of nodes or vertices connected in pairs by lines or edges. Contents: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z See also References Symbols[edit] Square brackets [ ] G[S] is the induced subgraph of a graph G for vertex subset S. Prime symbol ' The prime symbol is often used to modify notation for graph invariants so that it applies to the line graph instead of the given graph. For instance, α(G) is the independence number of a graph; α′(G) is the matching number of the graph, which equals the independence number of its line graph. Similarly, χ(G) is the chromatic number of a graph; χ ′(G) is the chromatic index of the graph, which equals the chromatic number of its line graph. A[edit] absorbing An absorbing set A {\displaystyle A} of a directed graph G {\displaystyle G} is a set of vertices such that for any vertex v ∈ G ∖ A {\displaystyle v\in G\setminus A} , there is an edge from v {\displaystyle v} towards a vertex of A {\displaystyle A} . achromatic The achromatic number of a graph is the maximum number of colors in a complete coloring.[1] acyclic 1. A graph is acyclic if it has no cycles. An undirected acyclic graph is the same thing as a forest. An acyclic directed graph, which is a digraph without directed cycles, is often called a directed acyclic graph, especially in computer science.[2] 2. An acyclic coloring of an undirected graph is a proper coloring in which every two color classes induce a forest.[3] adjacency matrix The adjacency matrix of a graph is a matrix whose rows and columns are both indexed by vertices of the graph, with a one in the cell for row i and column j when vertices i and j are adjacent, and a zero otherwise.[4] adjacent 1. The relation between two vertices that are both endpoints of the same edge.[2] 2. The relation between two distinct edges that share an end vertex.[5] α For a graph G, α(G) (using the Greek letter alpha) is its independence number (see independent), and α′(G) is its matching number (see matching). alternating In a graph with a matching, an alternating path is a path whose edges alternate between matched and unmatched edges. An alternating cycle is, similarly, a cycle whose edges alternate between matched and unmatched edges. An augmenting path is an alternating path that starts and ends at unsaturated vertices. A larger matching can be found as the symmetric difference of the matching and the augmenting path; a matching is maximum if and only if it has no augmenting path. antichain In a directed acyclic graph, a subset S of vertices that are pairwise incomparable, i.e., for any x ≤ y {\displaystyle x\leq y} in S, there is no directed path from x to y or from y to x. Inspired by the notion of antichains in partially ordered sets. anti-edge Synonym for non-edge, a pair of non-adjacent vertices. anti-triangle A three-vertex independent set, the complement of a triangle. apex 1. An apex graph is a graph in which one vertex can be removed, leaving a planar subgraph. The removed vertex is called the apex. A k-apex graph is a graph that can be made planar by the removal of k vertices. 2. Synonym for universal vertex, a vertex adjacent to all other vertices. arborescence Synonym for a rooted and directed tree; see tree. arc See edge. arrow An ordered pair of vertices, such as an edge in a directed graph. An arrow (x, y) has a tail x, a head y, and a direction from x to y; y is said to be the direct successor to x and x the direct predecessor to y. The arrow (y, x) is the inverted arrow of the arrow (x, y). articulation point A vertex in a connected graph whose removal would disconnect the graph. -ary A k-ary tree is a rooted tree in which every internal vertex has no more than k children. A 1-ary tree is just a path. A 2-ary tree is also called a binary tree, although that term more properly refers to 2-ary trees in which the children of each node are distinguished as being left or right children (with at most one of each type). A k-ary tree is said to be complete if every internal vertex has exactly k children. augmenting A special type of alternating path; see alternating. automorphism A graph automorphism is a symmetry of a graph, an isomorphism from the graph to itself. B[edit] bag One of the sets of vertices in a tree decomposition. balanced A bipartite or multipartite graph is balanced if each two subsets of its vertex partition have sizes within one of each other. bandwidth The bandwidth of a graph G is the minimum, over all orderings of vertices of G, of the length of the longest edge (the number of steps in the ordering between its two endpoints). It is also one less than the size of the maximum clique in a proper interval completion of G, chosen to minimize the clique size. biclique Synonym for complete bipartite graph or complete bipartite subgraph; see complete. biconnected Usually a synonym for 2-vertex-connected, but sometimes includes K2 though it is not 2-connected. See connected; for biconnected components, see component. binding number The smallest possible ratio of the number of neighbors of a proper subset of vertices to the size of the subset.[6] bipartite A bipartite graph is a graph whose vertices can be divided into two disjoint sets such that the vertices in one set are not connected to each other, but may be connected to vertices in the other set. Put another way, a bipartite graph is a graph with no odd cycles; equivalently, it is a graph that may be properly colored with two colors. Bipartite graphs are often written G = (U,V,E) where U and V are the subsets of vertices of each color. However, unless the graph is connected, it may not have a unique 2-coloring. biregular A biregular graph is a bipartite graph in which there are only two different vertex degrees, one for each set of the vertex bipartition. block 1. A block of a graph G is a maximal subgraph which is either an isolated vertex, a bridge edge, or a 2-connected subgraph. If a block is 2-connected, every pair of vertices in it belong to a common cycle. Every edge of a graph belongs in exactly one block. 2. The block graph of a graph G is another graph whose vertices are the blocks of G, with an edge connecting two vertices when the corresponding blocks share an articulation point; that is, it is the intersection graph of the blocks of G. The block graph of any graph is a forest. 3. The block-cut (or block-cutpoint) graph of a graph G is a bipartite graph where one partite set consists of the cut-vertices of G, and the other has a vertex b i {\displaystyle b_{i}} for each block B i {\displaystyle B_{i}} of G. When G is connected, its block-cutpoint graph is a tree. 4. A block graph (also called a clique tree if connected, and sometimes erroneously called a Husimi tree) is a graph all of whose blocks are complete graphs. A forest is a block graph; so in particular the block graph of any graph is a block graph, and every block graph may be constructed as the block graph of a graph. bond A minimal cut-set: a set of edges whose removal disconnects the graph, for which no proper subset has the same property. book 1. A book, book graph, or triangular book is a complete tripartite graph K1,1,n; a collection of n triangles joined at a shared edge. 2. Another type of graph, also called a book, or a quadrilateral book, is a collection of 4-cycles joined at a shared edge; the Cartesian product of a star with an edge. 3. A book embedding is an embedding of a graph onto a topological book, a space formed by joining a collection of half-planes along a shared line. Usually, the vertices of the embedding are required to be on the line, which is called the spine of the embedding, and the edges of the embedding are required to lie within a single half-plane, one of the pages of the book. boundary 1. In a graph embedding, a boundary walk is the subgraph containing all incident edges and vertices to a face. bramble A bramble is a collection of mutually touching connected subgraphs, where two subgraphs touch if they share a vertex or each includes one endpoint of an edge. The order of a bramble is the smallest size of a set of vertices that has a nonempty intersection with all of the subgraphs. The treewidth of a graph is the maximum order of any of its brambles. branch-decomposition A branch-decomposition of G is a hierarchical clustering of the edges of G, represented by an unrooted binary tree with its leaves labeled by the edges of G. The width of a branch-decomposition is the maximum, over edges e of this binary tree, of the number of shared vertices between the subgraphs determined by the edges of G in the two subtrees separated by e. The branchwidth of G is the minimum width of any branch-decomposition of G. branchwidth See branch-decomposition. bridge 1. A bridge, isthmus, or cut edge is an edge whose removal would disconnect the graph. A bridgeless graph is one that has no bridges; equivalently, a 2-edge-connected graph. 2. Especially in the context of planarity testing, a bridge of a cycle is a maximal subgraph that is disjoint from the cycle and in which each two edges belong to a path that is internally disjoint from the cycle. A chord is a one-edge bridge. A peripheral cycle is a cycle with at most one bridge; it must be a face in any planar embedding of its graph. 3. A bridge of a cycle can also mean a path that connects two vertices of a cycle but is shorter than either of the paths in the cycle connecting the same two vertices. A bridged graph is a graph in which every cycle of four or more vertices has a bridge. bridgeless A bridgeless graph is a graph that has no bridge edges; that is, a 2-edge-connected graph. butterfly 1. The butterfly graph has five vertices and six edges; it is formed by two triangles that share a vert contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Edge_(graph_theory) responseCode 3 200 