vmcmdmfkjqbssqrqdqoioghoycuoegliakogqcwm length 6 177467 page 10001 Overview of the guidelines, requirements, suggestions for the newbie editor "WP:1ST" and "WP:FIRST" redirect here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:1st (disambiguation). Writing an article Learn how you can create a new article on Wikipedia. Newcomer tip: You might want to build up your skills doing smaller tasks first at Wikipedia:Task Center. Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:YFA WP:FIRST H:YFA H:FIRST WP:1ST Wikipedia:Processes Article creation Introductory Getting started with Wikipedia Article wizard Your first article Suggested articles Most-wanted articles Requested articles Images needing articles Concepts and guidelines Standard layout Lead section Sections Stub articles Categorization Development processes Article development Moving a page Merging articles Featured article criteria The perfect article Meta tools and groups WikiProject: Articles for creation Special:NewPages Special:NewPagesFeed New pages patrol New articles by topic Recent additions (DYK) v t e Welcome to Wikipedia! Before starting a new article... Please review Wikipedia's notability requirements. In short, the topic of an article must have already been the subject of publication in reliable, secondary, entirely independent sources that treat the topic in substantive detail. They might be books, newspapers, magazines, peer-reviewed scholarly journals and similarly high-quality websites. Information on Wikipedia must be verifiable; if no reliable third-party sources can be found on a topic, then it should not have a separate article. Please search Wikipedia first to make sure that an article does not already exist on the subject. Generally, an article should closely follow Wikipedia policies and guidelines, specially: Neutral point of view Coverage of a notable topic Supported by reliable sources An Article Wizard is available to help you create an article through the Articles for Creation process, where it will be reviewed and considered for publication: Article wizard Please consider looking at our introductory tutorial or reviewing contributing to Wikipedia to learn the basics about editing. Working on existing articles is a good way to learn our protocols and style conventions; see the Task Center for articles that need your assistance and tasks you can help out with. The basics Wikipedia is an encyclopedia written by volunteers to help people gain useful knowledge. Our encyclopedia is pretty comprehensive, but that does not mean we would cover every single topic that exists. Therefore, Wikipedia is not a social media, a place for promotion or advocacy, nor a place to announce new unpublished theories. Information from websites, blogs, forum posts, social media, wikis including Wikipedia, and self-published sources are generally not suitable for Wikipedia. In another way, our job is to summarize such high-quality and published sources from other places, in the form of Wikipedia articles. That really is all we do! Do make sure that anything you write on Wikipedia is based only on such sources. Sounds easy? Not quite. Many of the notable topics have already been written by people in the past, and the fact of the matter is, most new articles nowadays are written about fairly obscure subjects. That can make distinguishing topics that are suitable or not suitable on Wikipedia very difficult, and are often flashpoints for contentious disputes. No amount of editing can overcome a lack of notability of a topic. More than 200 articles are typically deleted from the English Wikipedia every day; most are deleted for this very reason. We don't want you to waste all of your effort just for it to be marked for deletion! Please avoid making an article that you have a conflict of interest in, meaning that you have a close connection to the subject as an employee, family member, friend, etc or your financial and other relationships. This is a very strict policy on Wikipedia. Conflicts of interest undermines public confidence and risks causing public embarrassment to the individuals and companies being promoted. In practice, articles created out of a conflict of interest are usually rejected/deleted on sight. (Further information: Help:Your first article ยง Are you closely connected to the article topic?) If you want to succeed at this endeavor, you should gain ample of experience beforehand and get a feel of what a 'suitable' topic to write on Wikipedia would be. In fact, because the stakes are lower, this is a perfect opportunity to hone your editing skills! Do take a tour through the tutorial, ask around at the Teahouse, or read Wikipedia:Article development. Don't feel ashamed if you couldn't find a new topic to write about Wikipedia: plenty of distinguished editors here have only edited existing articles, but they are the one that turned the rubbish articles into great ones. Before creating an article, try to make sure there is not already an article on the same topic. If you don't find a match, perhaps try using a slightly different or broader search term: (Tip: If you want to write an article about a band member, you might search for the band and then add information about your subject as a section within that broader article.) Gathering references and establishing notability Notability General notability guideline Subject-specific guidelines Academics Astronomical objects Books Events Films Geographic features Music Numbers Organizations and companies People Sports and athletes Web content See also Notability essays Guide to deletion Common deletion outcomes Why was my article deleted? v t e Main page: Wikipedia:Reliable sources Before beginning to write any of your first article, gather sources for the information you will be writing about. You will use references to establish notability and to cite particular facts. References used to establish notability must meet additional criteria beyond reliability. References used for specific facts need not meet these additional criteria. To be suitable for inclusion in an encyclopedia, a subject must have significant coverage in multiple reliable, independent sources. All information in encyclopedia articles must be verifiable through citations. As noted, the sources you use must be reliable: they must be sources that exercise some form of editorial control and have some reputation for fact-checking and accuracy. Print sources (and web-based versions of those sources) tend to be the most reliable. Examples include: books published by major publishing houses, newspapers, magazines, peer-reviewed scholarly journals, websites of any of the above, and other websites that meet the same requirements as a reputable print-based source. In general, sources with no editorial control are not reliable. These include (but are not limited to) books published by vanity presses, blogs, web forums, Reddit discussions, personal social media, fan sites, and other similar venues. If anyone at all can post information without anyone else checking that information, it is probably not reliable. Similarly, an opinion column in an otherwise reputable newspaper cannot help establish notability. Many web sources feature user-generated content. This anyone can sign up and create content. All wikis are like this, including Wikipedia. Also IMDB, Goodreads, YouTube, LinkedIn, and social media such as Twitter and Instagram. Except for a few specific exceptions, these sources cannot be used. A good resource for determining the quality of a source is WP:RSP. This does not list things like books, or extremely reputable sources which are never questioned, like the Associated Press. It does list many sources that have been debated frequently. If your source is listed on that page as "generally unreliable" or "deprecated", you should not use it in your article. Sources used to establish notability must additionally be independent: they must not be connected to the subject. A company's own website cannot help establish notability. An interview with someone cannot help establish notability, as these can be bought. A press release repackaged as a news item (churnalism) cannot help either, and is sometimes more difficult to spot. Articles in Forbes magazine whose author is listed as a "Forbes contributor" are the equivalent of an opinion column, usually paid for by a business or individual with the intent of self-promotion. Sources used to establish notability must additionally demonstrate significant coverage: they must discuss your subject for awhile, at least multiple paragraphs. A mention in one or two sentences, or the appearance of your subject in a table or list is not enough to help establish notability. Sources that are not independent of the subject or do not demonstrate significant coverage can still be used in your article to support factual claims, but do not count towards notability. Sources that are not reliable should not be used at all. If there are reliable independent sources (such as newspapers, journals, or books) with extensive information published over an extended period about a subject, then that subject is notable. You must cite such sources as part of the process of creating a Wikipedia article as evidence of notability for evaluation by other editors. If you cannot find such reliable sources that provide extensive information about your proposed subject, then the subject is not notable or verifiable and almost certainly will be declined or deleted. If none of your sources are reliable and independent while providing significant coverage, it doesn't matter how many you have. No amount of these is enough to establish notability. Adding many inadequate sources will not help your article get approved, and will delay review as reviewers struggle to check them all. So your contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 62 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Your_first_article responseCode 3 200 