vmneamigrohofmlksoxgrivcmgfivovmosjotaeo length 6 117581 page 9053 Politics of Spain Constitution Constitution Constitutional Court President Cándido Conde-Pumpido Vice President Inmaculada Montalbán Huertas Constitutional history Spanish transition to democracy Human rights Taxation Law Abortion Nationality Capital punishment Life imprisonment The Crown Royal Household The Monarch (list) Felipe VI Heir presumptive (list) Leonor, Princess of Asturias Royal family Succession to the Spanish throne Executive Government of the Nation Prime Minister (list) Pedro Sánchez Deputy Prime Minister (list) Nadia Calviño (first) Yolanda Díaz (second) Teresa Ribera (third) Council of Ministers Sánchez III Government Ministries Government Delegations Government Delegated Committees Interministerial Committees Spanish prime-ministerial transition List of agencies in Spain Council of State Economic and Social Council Legislature Cortes Generales (14th Cortes Generales) Senate (14th Senate) Speaker (list) Ander Gil Congress of Deputies (14th Congress) Speaker (list) Meritxell Batet Parliamentary groups Permanent Deputation Bureaus of the Cortes Generales Board of Spokespersons People's Defender (ombudsman) Solemn Opening of the Parliament of Spain Judiciary General Council of the Judiciary Supreme Court President (list) Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Vice President Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Audiencia Nacional High courts of justice Court of Auditors Prosecution Ministry Euro European Central Bank Bank of Spain Governor of the Bank of Spain Pablo Hernández de Cos Deputy Governor of the Bank of Spain Margarita Delgado Tejero Royal Mint of Spain Administrative subdivisions Autonomous communities Legislatures Governments Presidents Autonomous cities Provinces Comarcas Municipalities Plazas de soberanía Elections Political parties Recent elections General: 2019 (Apr) 2019 (Nov) 2023 Regional: 2015 2019 2023 European: 2014 2019 2024 Referendums: 1978 1986 2005 Foreign relations Foreign relations Diplomatic missions of Spain in Spain Politics of the European Union Related topics Political parties: PP PSOE Podemos C's Spanish transition to democracy Francoist Spain Anarchism in Spain Liberalism and radicalism in Spain Spanish Civil War Nationalisms and regionalisms of Spain: Basque Catalan Galician Catalan independence movement (Spanish constitutional crisis of 2017–18) Disputed status of Gibraltar Republicanism in Spain (Second Spanish Republic) Spain portal Other countries v t e Parliamentary groups in Spain are the union of members of parliament who may or may not belong to the same political party, but with the same or similar political ideology. The figure of the parliamentary group is common to the Cortes Generales, the national parliament of Spain, and the regional legislatures. There is not a unified regulation on what the requirements are to form a parliamentary group. In the case of the national parliament, each House possess their own standing rules establishing the requirements. As common aspects, the senators or deputies that do not belong to a parliamentary group are integrated in the Mixed Group. Also, the groups are represented by a Spokesperson (that may be or not the leader of the political party). National legislature[edit] Senate[edit] According to the Standing Orders of the Senate, the Senate's parliamentary groups needs a minimum of 10 senators to be formed and during the term of the legislature, this number can not go below 6 senators. In this case, the group would be dissolved(II § 27). Each group can freely choose their name (II § 27) and they have to present before the Bureau of the Senate in the five days after the constitutive session the request in which they must to indicate which senators will form part of the parliamentary group. In the case of regional senators (appointed by the regional legislatures), they have five days since the appointment to integrate in one of the parliamentary groups (II § 28).[1] The Senate's parliamentary groups are subdivided in Territorial Groups. These groups are formed by a minimum of 3 senators belonging to specific constituencies (II § 32). As of December 2019, in the 14th Senate, these are the Senate' parliamentary groups:[2] Party or alliance Leader Spokesperson MPs Socialist Parliamentary Group (GPS) Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) Socialists' Party of Galicia (PSdeG) Socialist Party of the Basque Country (PSE-EE) Socialists' Party of Catalonia (PSC) Pedro Sánchez (PM) Eva Granados 113 Popular Parliamentary Group (GPP) People's Party (PP) Alberto Núñez Feijóo Javier Maroto 97 Republican Left-EH Bildu Parliamentary Group (GPERB) Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC) EH Bildu (EHB) Mirella Cortès Gès 15 Basque Parliamentary Group (GPV) Basque Nationalist Party (EAJ/PNV) Jokin Bildarratz 10 Citizens Parliamentary Group (GPC) Citizens–Party of the Citizenry (Cs) Inés Arrimadas Miguel Sánchez López 9 Confederal Left Parliamentary Group (GPIC) Adelante Andalucía (AA) In Common We Can (ECP) Compromís Geroa Bai (GBai) Más Madrid (MM) Més per Mallorca (MÉS) Carles Mulet García 6 Nationalist Parliamentary Group (GPN) Together for Catalonia (JxCat) Canarian Coalition (CC) Josep Lluís Cleries 6 Mixed Parliamentary Group (GPMX) Teruel Existe (TE) Vox Gomera Socialist Group (ASG) Aragonese Party (PAR) Regionalist Party of Cantabria (PRC) Navarrese People's Union (UPN) Joaquín Egea Juan Ros Fabián Chinea Clemente Sánchez-Garnica José Miguel Fernández Alberto Catalán 9 There is a missing senator of regional designation for Catalonia that is pending be appointed. Congress of Deputies[edit] The Congress of Deputies is the lower house of the Cortes Generales and the strongest of both houses. The requirements to form a parliamentary group in Congress are more complex (II § 23): The parliamentary groups needs a minimum of 15 MPs. In the case of not having 15 MPs, the parliamentary groups with no less than 5 MPs with a 5% of the national vote or a 15% of vote in their constituency, can form a parliamentary group. As in the Senate, the parliamentary groups have to be formed within the five days after the constitutive session of the House and they need the approval of the Bureau of the Congress (II § 24).[3] As of December 2019, in the 14th Cortes Generales, these are the Congress' parliamentary groups:[4] Party or alliance Leader Spokesperson Ideology MPs Socialist Parliamentary Group (GPS) Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) Socialists' Party of Catalonia (PSC) Pedro Sánchez (PM) Patxi López Social democracy 120 Popular Parliamentary Group (GPP) People's Party (PP) Alberto Núñez Feijóo Cuca Gamarra Conservatism Christian democracy 88 Vox Parliamentary Group (GPVOX) Vox (Vox) Santiago Abascal Iván Espinosa de los Monteros Right-wing populism National conservatism 52 Confederal Group of Unidas Podemos– En Comú Podem–Galicia en Común (GPPOD) We Can (Podemos) United Left (IU) In Common We Can (ECP) Galicia in Common Yolanda Díaz (SDPM) Pablo Echenique Left-wing populism Democratic socialism 35 Plural Parliamentary Group Together for Catalonia (JxCat) Más País-Equo (MP-E) Canarian Coalition (CC) New Canaries (NC) Més Compromís Galician Nationalist Bloc (BNG) Regionalist Party of Cantabria (PRC) Teruel Existe (TE) Laura Borràs Íñigo Errejón Ana Oramas Pedro Quevedo Joan Baldoví Néstor Rego José María Mazón Tomás Guitarte Laura Borràs This group is formed by MPs without its own parliamentary group, so the ideology is diverse. The Plural Group is a split from the Mixed Group to reduce the size of the latest. 16 Republican Parliamentary Group Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC) Sovereigntists (Sobiranistes) Gabriel Rufián Catalan independence Social democracy Democratic socialism 13 Citizens Parliamentary Group (GPC) Citizens–Party of the Citizenry (Cs) Inés Arrimadas Liberalism 10 Basque Parliamentary Group (GPV) Basque Nationalist Party (EAJ/PNV) Aitor Esteban Basque nationalism Christian democracy Conservative liberalism 6 Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group (GPEHB) EH Bildu (EHB) Mertxe Aizpurua Basque nationalism Separatism Socialism Left-wing nationalism 5 Mixed Parliamentary Group (GPMX) Popular Unity Candidacy (CUP) Navarrese People's Union (UPN) Asturias Forum (FA) Mireia Vehí Sergio Sayas Isidro Martínez Oblanca This group is formed by MPs without a parliamentary group, so the ideology is diverse. 5 References[edit] ^ "Senate of Spain Standing Orders (in Spanish)". www.boe.es. Retrieved 2019-05-31. ^ España, Senado de. "Cuadro resumen de Grupos Parlamentarios (Composición actual)". www.senado.es. Retrieved 2019-05-31. ^ "Congress of Deputies' Standing Orders (in Spanish)". www.boe.es. Retrieved 2019-05-31. ^ "Parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies for the 13th Cortes Generales". Notes[edit] ^ The parliamentary groups are divided according to political parties. Groups of less than 6 senators do exist because other political parties lend their senators to other parties in order to allow them to have a parliamentary group. contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Parliamentary_group_(Spain) responseCode 3 200 