vmqmgirijknguatmzktopaukuqgkakxkwolgjmwa length 6 115342 page 10013 This article is about the numerous peoples speaking Algonquian languages. For the "Algonquin" of Quebec and Ontario, see Algonquin people. Native North American ethnic group The geographic location of Algonquian-speaking people in North America prior to European settlements A 16th-century sketch of the Algonquian village of Pomeiock near the present-day Outer Banks in North Carolina[1] The Algonquian are one of the most populous and widespread North American native language groups. They historically were prominent along the Atlantic Coast and in the interior regions along Saint Lawrence River and around the Great Lakes. This grouping consists of the peoples who speak Algonquian languages.[2] Before Europeans came into contact, most Algonquian settlements lived by hunting and fishing, although many of them supplemented their diet by cultivating corn, beans and squash (the "Three Sisters"). The Ojibwe cultivated wild rice.[3] Colonial period[edit] Further information: Colonial history of the United States At the time of the first European settlements in North America, Algonquian peoples resided in present-day Canada east of the Rocky Mountains, New England, New Jersey, southeastern New York, Delaware, and down the Atlantic Coast to the Upper South, and around the Great Lakes in present-day Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. The precise homeland of the Algonquian peoples is not known. At the time of the European arrival, the hegemonic Iroquois Confederacy, based in present-day New York and Pennsylvania, was regularly at war with Algonquian neighbours.[4] Tribal identity[edit] The Algonquian peoples include and have included historical populations in: Mohegan of Connecticut, United States Chowanoke, formerly of North Carolina Carolina Algonquian Roanoke, formerly of North Carolina Croatan, formerly of North Carolina Powhatan Confederacy of Virginia Pamunkey of Virginia, United States Powhatan people of Virginia, United States Wampanoag of Massachusetts Wabanaki of the Maritime provinces/Atlantic provinces in Canada and New England in the United States Abenaki of Quebec, Canada; historically New Hampshire, Maine and Vermont. Penobscot of Maine Miꞌkmaq of Maine, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Quebec and Newfoundland Passamaquoddy of Maine, United States, and New Brunswick, Canada. Maliseet of New Brunswick and Quebec Shawnee, formerly of the Ohio River Valley, now Oklahoma Central Algonquian peoples Kickapoo (Kikapú, Kiikaapoa, Kiikaapoi): originally from southeast Michigan and Wisconsin United States; now in Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas, United States; Coahuila, Mexico Peoria (Illiniwek), formerly Illinois now Oklahoma Anishinaabe, Great Lakes, Subarctic, Northern Plains Ojibwe (including the Saulteaux and Oji-Cree)), Minnesota, North Dakota, and Michigan, United States, as well as Ontario, Canada Potawatomi of Michigan, Indiana, Kansas, Oklahoma, United States; Ontario, Canada Menominee of Wisconsin, Upper Michigan, United States and Ontario, Canada Odawa of Michigan and now Oklahoma, United States; Ontario, Canada Mississaugas of Ontario, Canada Nipissing of Ontario, Canada. Algonquin of Ontario and Quebec, Canada Cree of Alberta, Manitoba, Ontario, Saskatchewan, and the Northwest Territories, Canada, as well as Montana, United States. New England area[edit] Colonists in the Massachusetts Bay area first encountered the Wampanoag, Massachusett, Nipmuc, Pennacook, Penobscot, Passamaquoddy, and Quinnipiac. The Mohegan, Pequot, Pocumtuc, Podunk, Tunxis, and Narragansett were based in southern New England. The Abenaki were located in northern New England: present-day Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont in what became the United States and eastern Quebec in what became Canada. They traded with French colonists who settled along the Atlantic coast and the Saint Lawrence River. The Mahican were located in western New England in the upper Hudson River Valley (around present-day Albany, New York). These groups cultivated crops, hunted, and fished.[5] The Algonquians of New England such as the Piscataway (who spoke Eastern Algonquian), practised a seasonal economy. The basic social unit was the village: a few hundred people related by a clan kinship structure. Villages were temporary and mobile. The people moved to locations of greatest natural food supply, often breaking into smaller units or gathering as the circumstances required. This custom resulted in a certain degree of intertribal mobility, especially in troubled times.[citation needed] In warm weather, they constructed portable wigwams, a type of hut usually with buckskin doors. In the winter, they erected the more substantial longhouses, in which more than one clan could reside. They cached food supplies in more permanent, semi-subterranean structures.[citation needed] In the spring, when the fish were spawning, they left the winter camps to build villages at coastal locations and waterfalls. In March, they caught smelt in nets and weirs, moving about in birch bark canoes. In April, they netted alewife, sturgeon and salmon. In May, they caught cod with hook and line in the ocean; and trout, smelt, striped bass and flounder in the estuaries and streams. Putting out to sea, they hunted whales, porpoises, walruses and seals. They gathered scallops, mussels, clams and crabs[6] and, in southern New Jersey, harvested clams year-round.[7] From April through October, natives hunted migratory birds and their eggs: Canada geese, brant, mourning doves and others. In July and August they gathered strawberries, raspberries, blueberries and nuts. In September, they split into small groups and moved up the streams to the forest. There, they hunted beaver, caribou, moose and white-tailed deer.[8] In December, when the snows began, the people created larger winter camps in sheltered locations, where they built or reconstructed longhouses. February and March were lean times. The tribes in southern New England and other northern latitudes had to rely on cached food. Northerners developed a practice of going hungry for several days at a time. Historians hypothesize that this practice kept the population down, with some invoking Liebig's law of the minimum.[citation needed] The southern Algonquians of New England relied predominantly on slash and burn agriculture.[9][10][11][12][13][14] They cleared fields by burning for one or two years of cultivation, after which the village moved to another location. This is the reason the English found the region relatively cleared and ready for planting. By using various kinds of native corn (maize), beans and squash, southern New England natives were able to improve their diet to such a degree that their population increased and they reached a density of 287 people per 100 square miles as opposed to 41 in the north.[15] Scholars estimate that, by the year 1600, the indigenous population of New England had reached 70,000–100,000.[15] Midwest[edit] The French encountered Algonquian peoples in this area through their trade and limited colonization of New France along the Mississippi and Ohio rivers. The historic peoples of the Illinois Country were the Shawnee, Illiniwek, Kickapoo, Menominee, Miami, Sauk and Meskwaki. The latter were also known as the Sac and Fox, and later known as the Meskwaki Indians, who lived throughout the present-day Midwest of the United States.[16] During the nineteenth century, many Native Americans from east of the Mississippi River were displaced over great distances through the United States passage and enforcement of Indian removal legislation; they forced the people west of the Mississippi River to what they designated as Indian Territory. After the US extinguished Indian land claims, this area was admitted as the state of Oklahoma in the early 20th century.[16] Upper west[edit] Ojibwe/Chippewa, Odawa, Potawatomi, and a variety of Cree groups lived in Upper Peninsula of Michigan, Western Ontario, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and the Canadian Prairies. The Arapaho, Blackfoot and Cheyenne developed as indigenous to the Great Plains.[17] List of historic Algonquian-speaking peoples[edit] Algonquin Abenaki Missiquoi Pennacook Arapaho Beothuk Blackfoot Cheyenne Chowanoke Cree Gros Ventre Illinois Kickapoo Lenape Munsee Wappinger Unami Meskwaki Menominee Mahican Maliseet Mascouten Massachusett Mattabesic Mattabessett Podunk Tunxis Paugussett Quinnipiac Unquachog Miami Mi'kmaq Montaukett Mohegan Nanticoke Piscataway Nacotchtank Narragansett Nipissing Nipmuc Odawa Ojibwe Mississauga Passamaquoddy Penobscot Pequot Potawatomi Powhatan Sauk Shawnee Chalahgawtha Hathawekela Kispoko Mekoche Pekowi Secotan Roanoke people Croatan Wampanoag Weapemeoc Plains Cree See also[edit] Doctors Dean R. Snow and William A. Starna -- Archeologists and historians who have conducted ground-breaking archeological research in the Mohawk Valley and other Algonquian and Iroquoian sites. Footnotes[edit] ^ "The towne of Pmeiock", Encyclopedia Virginia ^ Stoltz, Julie Ann (2006). "Book Review of "The Continuance—An Algonquian Peoples Seminar: Selected Research Papers 2000", edited by Shirley Dunn, 2004, New York State Education Department, Albany, New York, 144 pages, $19.95 (paper)". Northeast Historical Archaeology. 35 (1): 201–202. doi:10.22191/neha/vol35/iss1/30. ISSN 0048-0738. ^ Raster, Amanda; Hill, Christina Gish (2016-05-24). "The dispute over wild rice: an investigation of treaty agreements and Ojibwe food sovereignty". Agriculture and Human Values. 34 (2): 267–281. doi:10.1007/s10460-016-9703-6. ISSN 0889-048X. S2CID 55940408. ^ "Algonquian Peoples – Legends of America". www.legendsofamerica.com. Retrieved 2020-04-14. ^ "Algonquin Indians". AAA Native Arts. Retrieved 2020-04-14. ^ Mark Kurlansky, 2006[page needed] ^ Dreibelbis, 1978 , page 33 ^ "Algonquian peoples". www.know.cf. Retrieved 2020-04-14.[permanent dead link] ^ Stevenson W. Fletcher, Pennsylvania Agriculture and Country Life 1640-1840 (Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Histor contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Algonquian_peoples responseCode 3 200 