vmvmlgfclcqabarasojcqinirqamaeygksscvodc length 6 106419 page 8441 Welcome to Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,748,161 articles in English From today's featured article Hilary Putnam, philosopher and mathematician The Quine–Putnam indispensability argument reasons that we should believe in abstract mathematical objects such as numbers and sets because mathematics is indispensable to science. One of the most important ideas in the philosophy of mathematics, it is credited to W. V. Quine and Hilary Putnam (pictured). The roots of the argument can be traced back to thinkers such as Gottlob Frege and Kurt Gödel, but Quine introduced its key components, including naturalism and confirmational holism. Putnam gave Quine's argument its first detailed formulation, although he later expressed disagreement with some aspects of the argument. Many counterarguments have been raised against the idea. An influential argument by Hartry Field holds that mathematical entities are dispensable to science. Other philosophers, such as Penelope Maddy, have argued that we do not need to believe in all of the entities that are indispensable to science. (Full article...) Recently featured: "To Be Loved" (Adele song) Alan Shepard Australiformis Archive By email More featured articles About Did you know ... Adult Balkan terrapin ... that hatchling Balkan terrapins are only 3 to 4 centimetres (1.2 to 1.6 in) in length, while adults (example pictured) can grow as long as 25 cm (9.8 in)? ... that Rush Munro's, New Zealand's oldest ice creamery, has used the same recipes since 1926? ... that the mean sea level observed by the Newlyn Tidal Observatory from 1915 to 1921 defined the reference for height measurement in Great Britain? ... that Orchard MRT station had a dome over the station's circular concourse until it was removed in 2008? ... that there are only 4 locations left of Boloco, which once had 22 burrito restaurants throughout the northeastern United States? ... that Jeʹvida is the first feature film in the Skolt Sámi language? ... that the novel Minor Detail is based on a true story of a 1949 gang rape and murder of a young Arab Bedouin-Palestinian girl by Israeli soldiers? ... that people were scammed on New Zealand television by the host of You've Been Scammed? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Travis Head The Cricket World Cup concludes with Australia defeating India in the final (Player of the Match Travis Head pictured). Pedro Sánchez is invested as Prime Minister of Spain, after proposing amnesty for Catalan separatists and then receiving support from them. In the Myanmar civil war, opposition forces capture multiple cities in a major offensive against the ruling military junta. Ongoing: Israel–Hamas war Russian invasion of Ukraine timeline War in Sudan Recent deaths: Rosalynn Carter Claude Kahn A. S. Byatt Worta McCaskill-Stevens Subrata Roy Tengiz Kitovani Nominate an article On this day November 20 Nuremberg trial defendants 1845 – Anglo-French blockade of the Río de la Plata: The Argentine Confederation was defeated in the Battle of Vuelta de Obligado, but the losses ultimately made the United Kingdom and France give up the blockade. 1945 – The Nuremberg trials (defendants pictured) of 24 leading Nazis involved in the Holocaust and various war crimes during World War II began in Nuremberg, Germany. 1947 – Princess Elizabeth, daughter of King George VI, married Lieutenant Philip Mountbatten, who was given the title Duke of Edinburgh. 1990 – Andrei Chikatilo, one of the Soviet Union's most prolific serial killers, was arrested in Novocherkassk. 2003 – Suicide bombers blew up the British consulate and the headquarters of HSBC Bank in Istanbul, killing 31 people, including consul general Roger Short and actor Kerem Yılmazer. Theoktistos (d. 855) Carl Axel Arrhenius (d. 1824) Izz ad-Din al-Qassam (d. 1935) Commander X (d. 2003) More anniversaries: November 19 November 20 November 21 Archive By email List of days of the year From today's featured list Merkel received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from U.S. president Barack Obama in 2011. Angela Merkel has received awards and honours from national governments, universities, and other non-governmental organisations. Merkel was the chancellor of Germany from 2005 until 2021, a length of tenure only exceeded by that of Helmut Kohl, and was the first female German chancellor. During her chancellorship, she was widely considered the de facto leader of the European Union. Forbes named Merkel the world's second most powerful person in 2012 and the world's most powerful woman fourteen times. Awards and honours received by Merkel include a special issue of the Grand Cross First Class of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, the United States Presidential Medal of Freedom, and twenty-one doctorates honoris causa. (Full list...) Recently featured: United States presidential elections in Connecticut Julia Michaels discography Accolades received by Skyfall Archive More featured lists Today's featured picture In archaeology, the Bactria–Margiana Archaeological Complex (BMAC), also known as the Oxus Civilization, refers to a Middle Bronze Age civilization of southern Central Asia, existing in its urban phase from circa 2400 to 1950 BC. Most of the BMAC's urban sites are actually located in Margiana (modern Turkmenistan) on the Marghab River delta, and in the Kopet Dag mountains. There are a few later sites in northern Bactria, in what is now southern Uzbekistan, but these are mostly graveyards belonging to the BMAC-related Sapalli culture. A single BMAC site lies in southern Bactria, in the north of modern Afghanistan. Sites found further east, in southwestern Tajikistan, though contemporary with the main BMAC sites in Margiana, are only graveyards, with no urban developments associated with them. This BMAC statuette of a seated female is an example of a "Bactrian princess", dating to between the late 3rd and early 2nd millennium BC. It is made of steatite or chlorite and alabaster, with dimensions of 3+9⁄16 in × 3+11⁄16 in × 1+7⁄8 in (9.0 cm × 9.4 cm × 4.8 cm). The sculpture is now in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Sculpture credit: unknown; photographed by the Metropolitan Museum of Art Recently featured: Grey triggerfish Rani ki Vav Sargocentron xantherythrum Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements. Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues. Site news – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement. Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Reference desk – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics. Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles العربية Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 250,000+ articles Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú Български Català Čeština Dansk Esperanto Euskara فارسی‎ עברית Հայերեն 한국어 Magyar Norsk bokmål Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe 50,000+ articles Asturianu বাংলা Bosanski کوردی Eesti Ελληνικά Simple English Frysk Gaeilge Galego Hrvatski ქართული Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Македонски Norsk nynorsk ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Shqip Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย తెలుగు Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 43 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Main_Page responseCode 3 200 