vogefmjirezqkoigfidemqiapmlokoyqpmykrmlo length 6 370825 page 10006 "Wikipedia:Directory" redirects here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:Directory (disambiguation). For the "Wikipedia is not a directory" policy, see WP:DIRECTORY. "Wikipedia:INDEX" redirects here. For pages about indexes (indices) of topics in Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Indexes. For the WikiProject, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Indexes. Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Chat Meetups Directories (Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects) Shortcuts WP:DIR WP:INDEX The following is a list of Wikipedia's directories and indexes. New to Wikipedia? See the contributing to Wikipedia page or our tutorial for everything you need to know to get started. Administration pages Protocols and conventions List of policies A descriptive list of official policies for "English Wikipedia". (Policies have wide acceptance among editors and describe standards that all users should normally follow.) List of guidelines A descriptive list of official guidelines for "English Wikipedia". (Editors should attempt to follow guidelines, though they are best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply.) Manual of Style contents A descriptive list of the pages which make up the style manual for "English Wikipedia". (The MoS outlines Wikipedia's house style for articles.) Assistance FAQs index An index of Frequently Asked Questions by topics. Help directory A massive descriptive list of almost all of Wikipedia's informative, instructional and "how to" pages. Help menu site map An index of the pages that make up the help menu. Reader's index An index for readers of Wikipedia. Requests directory A descriptive list of the interactive services and assistance that can be requested on Wikipedia. (Pages where editors can ask questions and request assistance from people who are familiar with the policies and guidelines covered by each individual forum.) Tips library Wikipedia's tips directory, where you can digest how to use Wikipedia in bite-sized morsels. See also Styletips, for bite-size chunks from the Manual of Style. Tools index A listing of Wiki-tools intended to simplify, make more efficient, or provide additional functionality to Wikipedians. Back to contents Wikipedia community Community portal The main directory for information on collaborations, on-going tasks, and news about English Wikipedia. Dashboard An index of the current discussions and requests taking place throughout English Wikipedia. Department directory A directory of all the different divisions of Wikipedia. Maintenance A directory of maintenance departments alongside open tasks and backlogs. Essay directory A colossal descriptive list of Wikipedia namespace essays. (Essays contain information, advice or opinions of one or more editors to aid or comment on the encyclopedia.) Editor's index An enormous index of the Wikipedia community, intended to help find anything not in the encyclopedia itself. (list hundreds of essays, guidelines, policies, help pages, and more.) Noticeboards directory A descriptive list of Wikipedia's interactive noticeboards. WikiProjects directory An index of WikiProjects by topics. (WikiProjects are groups of contributors who want to work together as a team to improve Wikipedia.) Back to contents MediaWiki software Wiki markup A list of wiki markup – alongside implantation tips. (Also known as wikitext or wikicode, is the syntax and keywords used by Wikipedia to format a page.) Templates An index of templates used within Wikipedia. HTML in wikitext A list of HTML elements, tags and their attributes used in Wikipedia. Back to contents Locutions Abbreviations A list of abbreviations commonly used on Wikipedia. Edit summary legend A list of commonly used edit summary abbreviations. (An edit summary is a brief explanation of an edit to a Wikipedia page.) Glossary A list of terms (slang) commonly used by editors during discussions. See also Reader's glossary. List of shortcuts A gigantic list of pages and their "abbreviated redirects". (A shortcut is a specialized type of redirect that provides an abbreviated wikilink to a page or one of its sections.) Back to contents Encyclopedia proper Content The vast content (articles) of the encyclopedia has been organized into several different "table of contents" as seen below. Types Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Featured and good content Featured articles Good articles Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Good topics Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Places, people, and times Academic disciplines Anniversaries today Countries and territories deaths this year Timelines centuries decades Indices A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Spoken articles Content administration Top pages Vital articles New pages Requested content Most-wanted Article cleanup backlog Back to contents v t e Wikipedia directories and indexes Administration pages Protocols Policies Guidelines Manual of Style Assistance Help directory Menu FAQs Interactive help Reader's index Tips Styletips Tools The community Portal Discussions Noticeboards Essays Editor's index Departments Maintenance WikiProjects MediaWiki Wikitext HTML Templates Locutions Abbreviations Edit summaries Glossary Shortcuts Encyclopedia proper Types Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Featured, good Featured articles Good articles Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Good topics Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Math Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology LOC, bios, times Academic disciplines Anniversaries Today Sovereign states and dependent territories Deaths this year Timelines Decades, centuries, and millennia Indexes A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Spoken articles v t e Wikipedia editor navigation v t e Wikipedia key policies and guidelines (?) Five pillars Ignore all rules Content (?) P Verifiability No original research Neutral point of view What Wikipedia is not Biographies of living persons Copyright (Copyright violations) Image use Article titles G Notability Autobiography Citing sources Reliable sources Medicine Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources Plagiarism Don't create hoaxes Fringe theories Patent nonsense External links Conduct (?) P Civility Consensus Harassment Vandalism Ignore all rules No personal attacks Ownership of content Edit warring Dispute resolution Sockpuppetry No legal threats Child protection Paid-contribution disclosure G Assume good faith Conflict of interest Disruptive editing Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point Etiquette Gaming the system Please do not bite the newcomers Courtesy vanishing Responding to threats of harm Talk page guidelines Signatures Deletion (?) P Deletion policy Proposed deletion Biographies Criteria for speedy deletion Attack page Oversight Revision deletion Enforcement (?) P Administrators Banning Blocking Page protection Editing (?) P Editing policy G Article size Summary style Be bold Disambiguation Hatnotes Broad-concept article Understandability Style Manual of Style Contents Accessibility Dates and numbers Images Layout Lead section Linking Lists Classification Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Template namespace Project content (?) G Project namespace WikiProjects User pages User boxes Shortcuts Subpages WMF (?) P Terms of Use List of policies Friendly space policy Licensing and copyright Privacy policy List of all policies and guidelines P: List of policies G: List of guidelines Summaries of values and principles v t e Manual of Style Overview Directory Tips Content Accessibility Biography Disambiguation pages Organizing by subject area Gender identity Hidden text Infoboxes Linking Self-references Words to watch Formatting Abbreviations Capitalization Dates and numbers Pronunciation Spelling Text formatting Titles of works Images Captions Image placement Icons Images Layout Layout Lead section Tables Trivia sections Lists Lists Lists of works Road junctions Stand-alone lists Legal Legal Trademarks Arts Anime and manga Comics Blazons Film Lyrics and poetry Novels Philosophy Television Video games Visual arts Writing about fiction Music Music Music samples Record charts Stringed instruments Regional Specific naming conventions Canada China (and Chinese) France (and French) Egypt Hawaii India Indonesia Ireland Japan Korea Malaysia Macedonia Pakistan Philippines Poland Singapore Trinidad and Tobago Religion Islam Latter Day Saints Science Mathematics Medicine Chemistry Compound classes Chemicals References and external links Safety Structure drawing Taxonomy Sports Cue sports Snooker Related Article size Article titles Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Citing sources Contents Hatnotes Military history Notability Signatures Overview Subpages Talk page guidelines Template namespace Tips Understandability User pages Wikimedia sister projects WikiProjects Search Category v t e Wikipedia accounts and governance Unregistered (IP) users Why create an account? Create an account Request an account IPs are human too IP addresses are not people IP hopper Registered users New account Logging in Reset passwords Username policy Changing username Usernames for administrator attention Unified login or SUL Alternate account Account security Password strength requirements User account security Personal security practices Two-factor authentication 2FA for AWB Committed identity On privacy, confidentiality and discretion Compromised accounts How to not get outed Blocks, bans, sanctions, global actions Blocking policy FAQ Admin's guide Tools Autoblock Appealing a block Guide to appealing blocks UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System Blocking IP addresses Range blocks IPv6 Open proxies Banning policy A contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Directory responseCode 3 200 