vqqmdcyirgqetevqwmpidehooauoqmaeeamcjmxe length 6 276607 page 10009 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 31 May 2023 00:00, 31 May 2023 (UTC) Depiction of the four sons of Horus ... that the four sons of Horus (pictured) were believed to have protected deceased people in the afterlife by creating a specialized connection with the deceased's internal organs? ... that duplex stainless steel can undergo 475 °C embrittlement that causes a loss of plasticity when it is heated between 250 °C and 550 °C? ... that Vietnam War photojournalist Art Greenspon was wounded in the face by a shot that had first passed through colleague Co Rentmeester's hand? ... that programs at a Cleveland public TV station had to be recorded in between school bells and fire drills? ... that actress Eula Morgan performed opera in her 1940s film roles, such as Madame Rinaldi in The Great American Broadcast? ... that the ownership group of San Diego's MLS team includes a Native American tribe and baseball player Manny Machado? ... that chef Lata Tondon once set a Guinness World Record with a cooking marathon lasting 87 hours 45 minutes? ... that the relatively low standards of player selection for Somerset County Cricket Club in 1883 have been described as being "determined with a nod and a wink over drinks"? 30 May 2023 00:00, 30 May 2023 (UTC) Carbatinae ... that the carbatinae (examples pictured), shoes worn in ancient Greece and Rome, were single pieces of leather tied onto the foot? ... that Lamia Al-Gailani Werr helped rebuild the Iraq Museum after it was looted in the 2003 American-led invasion of Iraq? ... that of approximately 140 men stranded after a shipwreck on Wager Island in 1741, only 36 returned alive to Britain, according to Rear Admiral C. H. Layman? ... that Roy McGrath, who was the chief of staff to Maryland governor Larry Hogan, was wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and was killed during a shootout by agents? ... that the 2003 book The Reconstruction of Nations describes how "national reconciliation is possible after even the most terrible conflicts", including ethnic cleansing? ... that the bird subspecies Alcippe dubia genestieri is named after Annet Genestier, a French missionary-botanist in China who also built Zhongding Catholic Church in 1908? ... that the historical-romance novel My Tender Matador includes a fictionalized version of the attempted assassination of Augusto Pinochet? ... that in college, American football lineman Zack Johnson played directly next to Zack Johnson? 29 May 2023 00:00, 29 May 2023 (UTC) February Azure ... that Russian artist Igor Grabar dug a trench in snow to paint February Azure (pictured)? ... that actor Glenn Strange was unaware that he was being called to play Frankenstein's monster in House of Frankenstein until he reported to the make-up room? ... that when journalist and trade unionist Nisn Pups was released from jail, the Communist Party of Lithuania instructed him to change his name? ... that scientists initially could not determine which direction Weywot was orbiting? ... that Samuel Dexter Lecompte, the pro-slavery chief justice of Kansas Territory before the Civil War, administered oaths to the Fugitive Slave Act instead of the United States Constitution? ... that records of transgender people in Finland stretch back to the 19th century? ... that crew members had to sign non-disclosure agreements to stop them revealing that the Inside No. 9 episode "Hold on Tight!" was fake? ... that evangelist Bob Harrington would drive miles out of his way to avoid the sight of a steeple? 28 May 2023 00:00, 28 May 2023 (UTC) Marvin Harrison Jr. ... that one NFL scout compared watching Marvin Harrison Jr. (pictured) to "window shopping at a Lamborghini dealership for the model that doesn't come out until next year"? ...that the Locumba uprising was thought by many to be a cover for the escape of Vladimiro Montesinos, Peru's de facto leader from 1990 to 2000? ... that Edward D. Boone was the last surviving member of his 1851 graduating class from the College of the Holy Cross? ... that the Easter composition Surrexit a mortuis ('He rose from the dead') was scored for choir and two organs by Charles-Marie Widor, the organist at Saint-Sulpice in Paris? ... that one abolitionist said that William L. Breckinridge's anti-slavery views would "disqualify [him] from political usefulness"? ... that variations of the Latin legal maxim ius civile vigilantibus scriptum est have been used by American, European and Lesotho courts? ... that the Standseilbahn Linth-Limmern, the funicular railway with the highest transport payload capacity (215 tonnes), was built to move four transformers 882 m (2,894 ft) uphill? ... that before becoming a legislator, Bettina Petzold-Mähr played volleyball for Liechtenstein when they defeated Lichtenstein? 27 May 2023 00:00, 27 May 2023 (UTC) French soldier wearing the pantalon rouge ... that French Army infantrymen wore red trousers (example pictured) from 1829 until 1914? ... that Zayn al-Din Qaraja was imprisoned and executed by the Mamluk Sultanate after he declared the independence of the Beylik of Dulkadir? ... that "London shrunk" garments can go for several weeks without needing ironing? ... that Katharina von Schnurbein is the European Commission's first coordinator on combatting antisemitism, having served in the role since 2015? ... that the show Protection Court continued to air episodes during an investigation launched by the Florida Judicial Qualifications Commission alleging that litigants were filmed without their consent? ... that a giant sculpture of melting whipped cream with a cherry on top transmitted a live feed of passers-by in Trafalgar Square, London? ... that Jordan St. Cyr, a Christian songwriter from a small town in Manitoba, won the first Juno Award for which he was nominated? ... that the late-Victorian Pagan Review lasted for a single issue and all of its content was written by one person? 26 May 2023 00:00, 26 May 2023 (UTC) Dierk Raabe ... that Dierk Raabe (pictured) received €2.5 million from the European Research Council to work on Green Steel? .... that Prodigy Math Game was initially created as a school project? ... that Anggara Wicitra Sastroamidjojo, a regional councillor in Jakarta, Indonesia, received media attention for bringing his seven-month-old child into the legislative chamber? ... that a book about Mormon polygamy claims that polygamy was an early form of feminism? ... that the Mongol general Boroqul saved the life of the future Ögedei Khan by continually sucking clotted blood from a wound on his neck? ... that the word 'tissue' in textiles refers to types of fabric that are delicate, lightweight, and sheer in nature? ... that a world record has been set every year Gqeberha has held its Breaking Barriers 50km event? ... that film critic and censor D. I. Suchianu wanted Romanian moviegoers to cease "falling asleep whenever they're not shown a naked breast [or] a hip that's getting some action"? 25 May 2023 00:00, 25 May 2023 (UTC) Luo Wenzao ... that Luo Wenzao (pictured) became the first Catholic bishop from China in 1685, after initially declining the appointment in 1677? ... that the Otoskwin–Attawapiskat River Provincial Park, protecting the Otoskwin and Attawapiskat Rivers in Ontario, Canada, has archaeological and historical sites dating from 3000 BC to the 1800s? ... that Crying Ladies and Donsol, films starring Angel Aquino, were Philippine submissions for Best International Fe contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 69 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2023/May responseCode 3 200 