wabstirsvqdslsnalspivsrkimckhqhofglseiwa length 6 281948 page 10000 Software system that is designed to search for information on the World Wide Web This article is about searching the World Wide Web. For other uses, see Search engine (disambiguation). It has been suggested that Search engine (computing) be merged into this article. (Discuss) Proposed since September 2023. This article needs more complete citations for verification. Please help add missing citation information so that sources are clearly identifiable. (July 2021) (template removal help) The results of a search for the term "lunar eclipse" in a web-based image search engine A search engine is a software system that finds web pages that match a web search.[1] They search the World Wide Web in a systematic way for particular information specified in a textual web search query. The search results are generally presented in a line of results, often referred to as search engine results pages (SERPs). The information may be a mix of hyperlinks to web pages, images, videos, infographics, articles, and other types of files. Some search engines also mine data available in databases or open directories. Unlike web directories and social bookmarking sites, which are maintained by human editors, search engines also maintain real-time information by running an algorithm on a web crawler. Any internet-based content that cannot be indexed and searched by a web search engine falls under the category of deep web. History Further information: Timeline of web search engines Timeline (full list) Year Engine Current status 1993 W3Catalog Inactive ALIWEB Inactive JumpStation Inactive WWW Worm Inactive 1994 WebCrawler Active Go.com Inactive, redirects to Disney Lycos Active Infoseek Inactive, redirects to Disney 1995 Yahoo! Search Active, initially a search function for Yahoo! Directory Daum Active Search.ch Active Magellan Inactive Excite Active MetaCrawler Active AltaVista Inactive, acquired by Yahoo! in 2003, since 2013 redirects to Yahoo! 1996 RankDex Inactive, incorporated into Baidu in 2000 Dogpile Active HotBot Inactive (used Inktomi search technology) Ask Jeeves Active (rebranded ask.com) 1997 AOL NetFind Active (rebranded AOL Search since 1999) Northern Light Inactive Yandex Active 1998 Google Active Ixquick Active as Startpage.com MSN Search Active as Bing empas Inactive (merged with NATE) 1999 AlltheWeb Inactive (URL redirected to Yahoo!) GenieKnows Inactive, rebranded Yellowee (was redirecting to justlocalbusiness.com) Naver Active Teoma Inactive (redirect to Ask.com) 2000 Baidu Active Exalead Inactive Gigablast Inactive 2001 Kartoo Inactive 2003 Info.com Active 2004 A9.com Inactive Clusty Inactive (redirect to DuckDuckGo) Mojeek Active Sogou Active 2005 SearchMe Inactive KidzSearch Active, Google Search 2006 Soso Inactive, merged with Sogou Quaero Inactive Search.com Active ChaCha Inactive Ask.com Active Live Search Active as Bing, rebranded MSN Search 2007 wikiseek Inactive Sproose Inactive Wikia Search Inactive Blackle.com Active, Google Search 2008 Powerset Inactive (redirects to Bing) Picollator Inactive Viewzi Inactive Boogami Inactive LeapFish Inactive Forestle Inactive (redirects to Ecosia) DuckDuckGo Active TinEye Active 2009 Bing Active, rebranded Live Search Yebol Inactive Scout (Goby) Active NATE Active Ecosia Active Startpage.com Active, sister engine of Ixquick 2010 Blekko Inactive, sold to IBM Cuil Inactive Yandex (English) Active Parsijoo Active 2011 YaCy Active, P2P 2012 Volunia Inactive 2013 Qwant Active 2014 Egerin Active, Kurdish / Sorani Swisscows Active Searx Active 2015 Yooz Inactive Cliqz Inactive 2016 Kiddle Active, Google Search 2017 Presearch Active 2020 Petal Active 2021 Brave Search Active Queye Active You.com Active Pre-1990s A system for locating published information intended to overcome the ever-increasing difficulty of locating information in ever-growing centralized indices of scientific work was described in 1945 by Vannevar Bush, who wrote an article in The Atlantic Monthly titled "As We May Think"[2] in which he envisioned libraries of research with connected annotations not unlike modern hyperlinks.[3] Link analysis would eventually become a crucial component of search engines through algorithms such as Hyper Search and PageRank.[4][5] 1990s: Birth of search engines The first internet search engines predate the debut of the Web in December 1990: WHOIS user search dates back to 1982,[6] and the Knowbot Information Service multi-network user search was first implemented in 1989.[7] The first well documented search engine that searched content files, namely FTP files, was Archie, which debuted on 10 September 1990.[8] Prior to September 1993, the World Wide Web was entirely indexed by hand. There was a list of webservers edited by Tim Berners-Lee and hosted on the CERN webserver. One snapshot of the list in 1992 remains,[9] but as more and more web servers went online the central list could no longer keep up. On the NCSA site, new servers were announced under the title "What's New!".[10] The first tool used for searching content (as opposed to users) on the Internet was Archie.[11] The name stands for "archive" without the "v".[12] It was created by Alan Emtage,[12][13][14][15] computer science student at McGill University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The program downloaded the directory listings of all the files located on public anonymous FTP (File Transfer Protocol) sites, creating a searchable database of file names; however, Archie Search Engine did not index the contents of these sites since the amount of data was so limited it could be readily searched manually. The rise of Gopher (created in 1991 by Mark McCahill at the University of Minnesota) led to two new search programs, Veronica and Jughead. Like Archie, they searched the file names and titles stored in Gopher index systems. Veronica (Very Easy Rodent-Oriented Net-wide Index to Computerized Archives) provided a keyword search of most Gopher menu titles in the entire Gopher listings. Jughead (Jonzy's Universal Gopher Hierarchy Excavation And Display) was a tool for obtaining menu information from specific Gopher servers. While the name of the search engine "Archie Search Engine" was not a reference to the Archie comic book series, "Veronica" and "Jughead" are characters in the series, thus referencing their predecessor. In the summer of 1993, no search engine existed for the web, though numerous specialized catalogs were maintained by hand. Oscar Nierstrasz at the University of Geneva wrote a series of Perl scripts that periodically mirrored these pages and rewrote them into a standard format. This formed the basis for W3Catalog, the web's first primitive search engine, released on September 2, 1993.[16] In June 1993, Matthew Gray, then at MIT, produced what was probably the first web robot, the Perl-based World Wide Web Wanderer, and used it to generate an index called "Wandex". The purpose of the Wanderer was to measure the size of the World Wide Web, which it did until late 1995. The web's second search engine Aliweb appeared in November 1993. Aliweb did not use a web robot, but instead depended on being notified by website administrators of the existence at each site of an index file in a particular format. JumpStation (created in December 1993[17] by Jonathon Fletcher) used a web robot to find web pages and to build its index, and used a web form as the interface to its query program. It was thus the first WWW resource-discovery tool to combine the three essential features of a web search engine (crawling, indexing, and searching) as described below. Because of the limited resources available on the platform it ran on, its indexing and hence searching were limited to the titles and headings found in the web pages the crawler encountered. One of the first "all text" crawler-based search engines was WebCrawler, which came out in 1994. Unlike its predecessors, it allowed users to search for any word in any webpage, which has become the standard for all major search engines since. It was also the search engine that was widely known by the public. Also, in 1994, Lycos (which started at Carnegie Mellon University) was launched and became a major commercial endeavor. The first popular search engine on the Web was Yahoo! Search.[18] The first product from Yahoo!, founded by Jerry Yang and David Filo in January 1994, was a Web directory called Yahoo! Directory. In 1995, a search function was added, allowing users to search Yahoo! Directory.[19][20] It became one of the most popular ways for people to find web pages of interest, but its search function operated on its web directory, rather than its full-text copies of web pages. Soon after, a number of search engines appeared and vied for popularity. These included Magellan, Excite, Infoseek, Inktomi, Northern Light, and AltaVista. Information seekers could also browse the directory instead of doing a keyword-based search. In 1996, Robin Li developed the RankDex site-scoring algorithm for search engines results page ranking[21][22][23] and received a US patent for the technology.[24] It was the first search engine that used hyperlinks to measure the quality of websites it was indexing,[25] predating the very similar algorithm patent filed by Google two years later in 1998.[26] Larry Page referenced Li's work in some of his U.S. patents for PageRank.[27] Li later used his Rankdex technology for the Baidu search engine, which was founded by him in China and launched in 2000. In 1996, Netscape was looking to give a single search engine an exclusive deal as the featured search engine on Netscape's web browser. There was so much interest that instead, Netscape struck deals with five of the major search engines: for $5 million a year, each search engine would be in rotation on the Netscape search engine page. The five engines were Yahoo!, Magellan, Lycos, Infoseek, and Excite.[28][29] Google adopted the idea of selling search terms in 1998 from a small search engine company named got contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 47 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Search_engine responseCode 3 200 