wakkdcwgccwctazmiepqneogbmuaoofkbqyqpkwa page 10018 Community page for questions and assistance relating to Wikipedia ↑ To top of page Shortcuts WP:HELPDESK WP:HD Help:DESK Welcome to the help desk. This place is meant for questions about how to use or edit Wikipedia. (Am I in the right place?) For other types of questions, use the search box, see the reference desk or Help:Contents. If you have comments about a specific article, use that article's talk page. Do not provide your email address or any other contact information. Answers will be provided on this page only. We are all volunteers, so sometimes replies can take some time. Please be patient. Check back on this page to see if your question has been answered. If you need real-time help, you can join our IRC help channel, #wikipedia-en-help. If you are a new editor, you might prefer to ask your question at the Teahouse, an area specifically for new users to get help with editing, article creation and general Wikipedia use, in a friendly environment. Remember to sign your post by adding four tildes (~~~~) at the end of your post. Alternatively, you can click on the signature icon () on the edit toolbar. Ask a new question v t e Wikipedia help pages Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum. FAQs (?) Reference desks (?) Noticeboards (?) Cheatsheet (?) Directories (?) About Wikipedia (?) Administration Purpose Principles Policies and guidelines What Wikipedia is not Disclaimer (parental advice) Making requests Who writes Wikipedia? Help for readers (?) FAQ Books Copyright Glossary Mobile access Navigation Other languages Searching Students Viewing media Contributing to Wikipedia (?) Advice for young editors Avoiding common mistakes Etiquette Simplified Manual of Style Simplified rule-set "Ignore all rules" "The rules are principles" Style-tips Tip of the day Your first article (article wizard) Getting started (?) Why create an account? Introductions by topic Graphics tutorials Picture tutorial IRC (live chat) tutorial VisualEditor user guide Dos and don'ts (?) Accessibility Biographies Biographies (living) Categorization Consensus Discussions Disambiguation Images Leads Links Lists References Tables Titles (of articles) How-to pages and information pages (?) Appealing blocks Article deletion Categories Citations/references Referencing for beginners Citation Style 1 Cite errors References and page numbers Convert Diff Editing Minor edit toolbar edit conflict Find sources Files Footnotes Image deletion Infoboxes Linking (link color) Logging in Merging Page name Renaming pages Redirect Passwords Email confirmation Reverting Simple vandalism cleanup Talk pages (archiving simple archiving) User contributions WP search protocol Coding (?) Wiki markup Barcharts Calculations Characters Columns Elevation Hidden text HTML Lists Magic words Music symbols Sections Sounds Tables Templates Transclusion URL Visual files Directories (?) Abbreviations Contents (Encyclopedia proper) Departments Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Guidelines Manual of Style Policies Tasks Tips Tools Missing Manual Ask for help on your talk page (?) Skip to today's questions Special help services Archived discussions How to answer Search the frequently asked questions Search the help desk archives and other help pages November 17[edit] Cory Markum[edit] Is Cory Markum notable. MagicalPrince863 (talk) 01:35, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] MagicalPrince863, whoever Cory Markum might be, here, in this discussion thread, present the URLs of what you consider to be the best three web pages about them. Each of the three must be reliable and should describe or discuss Markum in depth. -- Hoary (talk) 01:54, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] If you need to ask if someone is notable, the answer is likely to be no. The only source that I could find is here, which is definitely not WP:GNG territory.--♦IanMacM♦ (talk to me) 08:20, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Page mover/swapper needed here![edit] Whoever page mover and swapper you are, please help close the move on Talk:Cancer Minor (constellation). 112.120.56.105 (talk) 07:01, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Done Tollens (talk) 07:03, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Why my edits are getting removed?[edit] Please help me understand the reason behind my contributions being undone. Kashley79 (talk) 13:01, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Kashley79: Assuming you're referring to Eleanor McEvoy, I will say that this revision is justifiably removed. Wikipedia is not a platform for promotion, and phrases like [...] has sprinkled his magic on Eleanor McEvoy's enchanting song are inappropriate. The other things are minor but potentially annoying to other editors without investigating any further. —Tenryuu 🐲 ( 💬 • 📝 ) 13:13, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Kashley79 People have left some helpful (if generic) messages on your talk page in an attempt to let you know why your contributions are being undone. Have you read them? ~ ONUnicorn(Talk|Contribs)problem solving 15:56, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Oldest article with only one editor?[edit] I was wondering what the oldest (mainspace) article is with only one editor, when I realized I don't even know how to get a list of the the articles with only one editor at all... Ideas? Naraht (talk) 13:29, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Naraht, WP:RAQ would probably be the venue I'd ask about this. Folly Mox (talk) 14:05, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Asked there, got a response that it would require an almost complete table scan of the 1.2B table of edits and may not even give the right answer due to the spottiness of edits kept in the first year. Consider the request dropped.Naraht (talk) 18:23, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Good idea. It would probably have been about a village in some remote corner of the world, population 73, where nothing ever happened, ever. Or a footballer who played once for a team which managed to get into League 4 for one season. Or a species of minute sea snail, discovered in 1981 and noticed by one scientific journal in 1995. And that's assuming that it didn't contain duplicate words like 'the the', in which case the grammar gnomes would have been swarming all over it, and then there's the :categories obsessives, and and and - such an article just seems unlikely to be of surpassing interest. MinorProphet (talk) 01:03, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] G11 an extremely stale user sandbox?[edit] Hi, and hope you're well. Does User:Gurudev Bapji/sandbox qualify for WP:G11? Thanks in advanced! Rotideypoc41352 (talk · contribs) 15:04, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] If I found that tagged for G11, I would decline it. Several factors that would go into my decision include: The draft is in a user sandbox, not main space, and not even draft space. I give more leeway to userspace drafts, thought will still delete blatant advertising no matter where it is found. The subject of the draft is deceased. I feel G11 is less applicable to deceased individuals and defunct companies than to living persons and companies that are still in existence. That said, G11 can still apply to deceased individuals where living persons still have a financial/emotional/whatever stake in promoting them. The draft doesn't read to me as exclusively and unambiguously promotional. It's obviously written by an adherent of the faith the subject founded, and would need heavy editing to be neutral enough for mainspace, but I do think there are usable parts of the draft if someone was inclined to write an actual article about this person. This particular draft is about a spiritual leader. There is a mainspace article about the denomination he founded. It seems to me that the mainspace article about the denomination is a slightly more useful vehicle for promotion than a userspace draft. This seems like something to keep an eye on - the mainspace article is orange tagged for potentially being written by someone with a COI, having neutrality problems, and needing secondary sources. If this draft were to appear in mainspace I may have concerns about a burgeoning walled garden written by people with a COI on this topic, but as long as it's just hanging out in userspace I don't think it's an issue YET. I do see that the account that created that userspace draft is blocked for sock puppetry. If this were tagged for G5, I think it would be more likely to be deleted than under G11. The page view analysis indicates that, before yesterday, this was getting less than one view a day. If this is a vehicle for promotion, it's not a very successful one. Overall, my assessment of this is mostly harmless. I would decline a G11, and not bother with a G5. I'm not interested enough in diving down this particular rabbit hole to adopt the article and try to research and rewrite it. I would just ignore it. ~ ONUnicorn(Talk|Contribs)problem solving 15:51, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Gurudev Bapji is blocked indefinitely. Bazza (talk) 15:57, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Yes, as I noted in my response above. ~ ONUnicorn(Talk|Contribs)problem solving 16:07, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] I had a feeling something like it applied and just wanted to make sure. Thanks for the thorough response! Rotideypoc41352 (talk · contribs) 16:59, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Window Dressers[edit] Somone named Johnny Lamberti continues to add his name under notable Window Dressers which is a fault statement. He is an unknown and only tried to add his name for his own monetary purposes. He is not notable, famous or has nothing to do with window dressers. Please look into this further and stop him from adding his name to under Notable Window Dressers. Tinkerbell4444 (talk) 15:58, 17 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Courtesy link: Window dresser. I took a look, and I see it's been added and removed a few times this month, along with someone trying to add "and FAMOUS" to the section title, but I don't think the level of disruption is high  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Help_desk responseCode 3 200 