wecklkzatmcgyowqkkkcbspihmuekkbejsbqkcxq length 6 215227 page 10045 French-speaking university in Brussels, Belgium This article is about the current French-speaking university. For the 1834–1969 university, see Free University of Brussels (1834–1969). For the current Dutch-speaking university, see Vrije Universiteit Brussel. Université libre de Bruxelles Seal of the ULB, created in 2013. Latin: Universitas Bruxellensis Motto Scientia vincere tenebras (Latin) Motto in English Conquering darkness by science Type Independent/partly state funded Established 1834 (Free University of Brussels) 1970 (ULB) President Pierre Gurdjian Rector Annemie Schaus Administrative staff 4,400 Students 30,880 (2020)[1] Location Brussels , Belgium Campus Solbosch, Plaine, Erasme, Gosselies Affiliations EUA AUF ENTREE IMCC [fr] T.I.M.E. UNICA Atomium Culture Website www.ulb.be The Université libre de Bruxelles ( French: [ynivɛʁsite libʁ də bʁysɛl]; English: Free University of Brussels; abbreviated ULB) is a French-speaking research university in Brussels, Belgium. ULB is one of the two institutions tracing their origins to the Free University of Brussels, founded in 1834 by the lawyer and liberal politician Pierre-Théodore Verhaegen. The split occurred along linguistic lines, forming the French-speaking ULB in 1969, and Dutch-speaking Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) in 1970. A major research center open to Europe and the world,[2][3] the ULB now has about 24,200 students, 33% of whom come from abroad, and an equally cosmopolitan staff.[4] Name[edit] Brussels has two universities whose names mean Free University of Brussels in English: the French-speaking Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB) and the Dutch-speaking Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB). Neither uses the English translation, since it is ambiguous. History[edit] Main article: Free University of Brussels (1834–1969) Establishment of a university in Brussels[edit] Pierre-Théodore Verhaegen, founder of the Free University of Brussels The history of the Université libre de Bruxelles is closely linked with that of Belgium itself. When the Belgian State was formed in 1830 by nine breakaway provinces from the Kingdom of the Netherlands, three state universities existed in the cities of Ghent, Leuven and Liège, but none in the new capital, Brussels. Since the government was reluctant to fund another state university, a group of leading intellectuals in the fields of arts, science, and education — amongst whom the study prefect of the Royal Athenaeum of Brussels, Auguste Baron, as well as the astronomer and mathematician Adolphe Quetelet — planned to create a private university, which was permitted under the Belgian Constitution.[5][6] In 1834, the Belgian episcopate decided to establish a Catholic university in Mechelen with the aim of regaining the influence of the Catholic Church on the academic scene in Belgium, and the government had the intent to close the university at Leuven and donate the buildings to the Catholic institution.[7] The country's liberals strongly opposed to this decision, and furthered their ideas for a university in Brussels as a counterbalance to the Catholic institution. At the same time, Auguste Baron had just become a member of the freemasonic lodge Les Amis Philantropes. Baron was able to convince Pierre-Théodore Verhaegen, the president of the lodge, to support the idea for a new university. On 24 June 1834, Verhaegen presented his plan to establish a free university.[6] After sufficient funding was collected among advocates, the Université libre de Belgique ("Free University of Belgium") was inaugurated on 20 November 1834, in the Gothic Room of Brussels Town Hall. The date of its establishment is still commemorated annually, by students of its successor institutions, as a holiday called Saint-Verhaegen/Sint-Verhaegen (often shortened to St V) for Pierre-Théodore Verhaegen.[8] In 1836, the university was renamed the Université libre de Bruxelles ("Free University of Brussels").[5] After its establishment, the Free University faced difficult times, since it did receive no subsidies or grants from the government; yearly fundraising events and tuition fees provided the only financial means. Verhaegen, who became a professor and later head of the new university, gave it a mission statement which he summarised in a speech to King Leopold I: "the principle of free inquiry and academic freedom uninfluenced by any political or religious authority."[6] In 1858, the Catholic Church established the Saint-Louis Institute in the city, which subsequently expanded into a university in its own right. Growth, internal tensions and move[edit] The Free University, then housed in the Granvelle Palace, c. 1900 The Free University grew significantly over the following decades. In 1842, it moved to the Granvelle Palace, which it occupied until 1928. It expanded the number of subjects taught and, in 1880, became one of the first institutions in Belgium to allow female students to study in some faculties. In 1893, it received large grants from Ernest and Alfred Solvay and Raoul Warocqué to open new faculties in the city. A disagreement over an invite to the anarchist geographer Élisée Reclus to speak at the university in 1893 led to some of the liberal and socialist faculty splitting away from the Free University to form the New University of Brussels (Université nouvelle de Bruxelles) in 1894. The institution failed to displace the Free University, however, and closed definitively in 1919.[9] In 1900, the Free University's football team won the bronze medal at the Summer Olympics. After Racing Club de Bruxelles declined to participate, a student selection with players from the university was sent by the Federation.[10][11] The team was enforced with a few non-students.[12] The Institute of Sociology was founded in 1902, then in 1904 the Solvay School of Commerce, which would later become the Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management. In 1911, the university obtained its legal personality under the name Université libre de Bruxelles - Vrije Hogeschool te Brussel.[13] The university's football team that won the bronze medal at the 1900 Olympic Games The German occupation during World War I led to the suspension of classes for four years in 1914–1918. In the aftermath of the war, the Free University moved its principle activities to the Solbosch in the southern suburb of Ixelles and a purpose-built university campus was created, funded by the Belgian American Educational Foundation. The university was again closed by the German occupiers during World War II on 25 November 1941. Students from the university were involved in the Belgian Resistance, establishing Groupe G which focused on sabotage. Splitting of the university[edit] Until the early 20th century, courses at the Free University were taught exclusively in French, the language of the upper class in Belgium at that time, as well as of law and academia. However, with the Dutch-speaking population asking for more rights in Belgium (see Flemish Movement), some courses began being taught in both French and Dutch at the Faculty of Law as early as 1935. Nevertheless, it was not until 1963 that all faculties offered their courses in both languages.[14] Tensions between French- and Dutch-speaking students in the country came to a head in 1968 when the Catholic University of Leuven split along linguistic lines, becoming the first of several national institutions to do so. On 1 October 1969, the French and Dutch entities of the Free University separated into two distinct sister universities. This splitting became official with the act of 28 May 1970, of the Belgian Parliament, by which the French-speaking Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB) and the Dutch-speaking Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) officially became two separate legal, administrative and scientific entities.[15][16] Campuses[edit] The ULB comprises three main campuses: the Solbosch campus, on the territories of the City of Brussels and Ixelles municipalities in the Brussels-Capital Region, the Plaine campus in Ixelles, and the Erasmus campus in Anderlecht, beside the Erasmus Hospital. The main and largest campus of the university is the Solbosch, which hosts the administration and general services of the university. It also includes most of the faculties of the humanities, the École polytechnique, the large library of social sciences, and among the museums of the ULB, the Museum of Zoology and Anthropology,[17] the Allende exhibition room and the Michel de Ghelderode Museum-Library. The Plaine campus hosts the Faculty of Science and the Faculty of Pharmacy. There are also the Experimentariums of physics and chemistry, the Museum of Medicinal Plants and Pharmacy[18] and student housing. This site is served by Delta station. The Erasmus campus houses the Erasmus Hospital and the Pôle Santé, the Faculty of Medicine, the School of Public Health and the Faculty of Motor Sciences. There is also the School of Nursing (with the Haute école libre de Bruxelles – Ilya Prigogine), the Museum of Medicine[19] and the Museum of Human Anatomy and Embryology.[20] This site is served by Erasme/Erasmus metro station. The university also has buildings and activities in the Brussels municipality of Auderghem, and outside of Brussels, in Charleroi on the Aéropole Science Park and Nivelles. The main building on the Solbosch campus, located in the City of Brussels close to Ixelles Entrance of the Paul-Émile Janson Auditorium on the Solbosch campus The Museum of Medicine on the Erasmus campus in Anderlecht Faculties and institutes[edit] Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management Institute for European Studies[21] Interfacultary School of Bio-Engineering School of Public Health High Institute of Physical Education and Kinesiotherapy Institute of Work Sciences Institute of Statistics and Operational Research Institute for Astronomy and Astrophysics Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management Faculty of Sciences International Partnership contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 68 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Universit%C3%A9_libre_de_Bruxelles responseCode 3 200 