wgbcmkmgzkocjqmsamcqucwmkspohcnqsspmxcts page 10012 "WP:DEV" redirects here. For other uses, see m:System administrators and mw:Developers. Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:DEV WP:ARTDEV Contributing to Wikipedia (Tutorial) Policies and guidelines Editing policy Content policies Dispute resolution Simple rule set Simple style manual Introductions About Wikipedia Administration How to contribute Tutorial How-to pages Creating an account How to edit Starting an article Article wizard Talk pages Referencing Renaming Deletion Media Lists Tables Templates Copying text Style tips Wikitext Writing advice Article development Basic copyediting Layouts Avoiding mistakes Writing better Perfect article Advanced editing Community Portal Dashboard Essays Maintenance Task Center WikiProjects Editor's index Directories and indexes FAQs Help index Tools Interactive help Teahouse Help desk v t e The path to a featured article Start a new article Develop the article Check against the featured article criteria Get creative feedback (Peer review) Apply for featured article status Featured articles v t e A PDF brochure by the Wikimedia Foundation about how articles evolve, elements of good quality articles, and signs of poor quality articles. Some of Wikipedia's articles are comprehensive right from the outset, but most start off as stubs and ideally grow into well-written, comprehensive articles with time. This page describes the stages in the life of an article and lists the ways in which you can help an article grow into the next stage. Skipping stages is not just permissible—it is, in fact, recommended! The following categories should give you an idea of how articles typically grow on Wikipedia. Stages of an article v t e (Summary) The Journey of a Wikipedia Article Legend Account created Searching and searching... An article on the topic exists already. Make a redirect. An article on the topic doesn’t exist Finding reliable sources Writing Putting it on your subpage or somewhere Article gets speedy deleted You keep on submitting it and you get blocked Submitted as a draft Draft submitted Draft declined, then edited and re-submitted Draft accepted You may lose motivation to work on the article Unpublished Published You just publish it without drafting (skip if you went via "Draft accepted") Might get deleted by New Page patrol Nice editors add sources, expand the article, and make it even better! Doesn’t get vandalized It gets vandalized (could get protected) To being a good article and beyond!! Uncreated articles Consider using a Wizard to help you create articles. See the Article Wizard. Thank you. Every article starts with an idea in the mind of a contributor. You can create articles about anything, as long as they belong in Wikipedia. It is a good idea to search first, so you are sure there has not been an article on the subject; if there is, a redirect may be appropriate. If you see a red link that strikes your fancy, create an article! (If you've not created an article before, see Your First Article.) For more suggestions on how to think of subjects to contribute on, see Wikipedia:Contributing to Wikipedia. Before you start, it's helpful to read the guidelines and tutorials on creating new articles to get an idea of what you should consider—such matters as the scope, format, references, and NPOV in a Wikipedia article. Good ways to find articles to create: Wikipedia:Requested articles Wikipedia:Most wanted articles Wikipedia:Articles for creation Template:Opentask Wikipedia:Pages needing translation into English Wikipedia:Collaboration Stubs If you do not have the time to write a full article, consider writing a "stub". Stubs are very short articles—generally just a few sentences. These are the "ugly ducklings" of Wikipedia. With effort, they can mature into "swans". Good ways to find stub articles and grow stubs: Category:Stub categories Special:Newpages Special:Randompage Special:Shortpages To find stub templates appropriate for an article, see these WikiProject Stub sorting sub-pages. See Wikipedia:WikiProject Stub sorting/Stub types for more information on existing stub types. See Wikipedia:WikiProject Stub sorting/List of stubs for a compact list of all stub types. Article stub placement The article stub (or stubs) template is added after the last line of the article. For example: Last line of the article. (first blank line) (second blank line) {{stub}} Talk page stub class Article quality assessments are mainly performed by members of WikiProjects, who tag talk pages of articles. For beginning stub articles, the class=Stub parameter is added to the article's WikiProject banner on the talk page. Developing articles Shortcuts WP:ARTEXPAND WP:EXPANDART Once a stub has real content, it is a real article and the article's stub template(s) can be removed. The vast majority of articles fall into this category. They may have weaknesses, so you are encouraged to copyedit them and, where you have the knowledge or do the necessary research, to add content. As an article is improved in quality it goes through stages of development. Here is an example of the evolution of an article. Good ways to find and improve developing articles (see below for more information): Wikipedia:Cleanup Wikipedia:WikiProject Guild of Copy Editors Template:Opentask Category:Wikipedia pages with to-do lists Category:Articles needing attention Wikipedia:WikiProject Wikipedia:List of WikiProjects Wikipedia:Regional notice boards Wikipedia:Writing better articles Good articles Wikipedia:Good articles Wikipedia:What is a good article? How to get great articles up to featured quality Wikipedia:Peer review Wikipedia:Featured article candidates Featured article This star symbolizes the featured content on Wikipedia. The featured articles are what we believe to be the best articles in Wikipedia. Before promotion to featured status, articles are reviewed at Wikipedia:Featured article candidates for compelling prose, accuracy, neutrality, and completeness, according to our featured article criteria. Wikipedians tend to be proud of featured articles to which they have contributed. Once an article is certified as featured, it joins an exclusive group of featured content which is showcased across various community pages, including Portals and WikiProjects. The article could also receive the distinction of being featured on the main page. Before the article is scheduled to appear on the main page, it should receive a last review and polishing where possible. Featured articles present our best work to people who might not know about Wikipedia. This is an excellent way to recruit new Wikipedians and obtain donations, both of which help Wikipedia immensely. Featured articles are well polished, but there are usually small improvements that can still be made. Do not ever be afraid to correct mistakes or update information when you see an opportunity. No article is perfect, even though perfection is always our goal. We have a formal procedure for encouraging Wikipedians to review and improve featured articles: Featured Article Review. Featured articles Wikipedia:Today's featured article Wikipedia:Featured articles Wikipedia:Featured article review What constitutes a featured article Wikipedia:Featured article criteria Good ways to display our best articles: Wikipedia:Publicity Wikipedia:Wikipedia in the media How to develop an article Shortcut WP:DEVELOP Suppose you want to create a good, or even perfect, Wikipedia article that deserves to be listed among our featured articles (those considered by consensus to be Wikipedia's best articles). Your goal is then to meet the featured article criteria. Here is a guide to achieving this. Research Once you have decided on an encyclopedic topic, use Wikipedia's search engine to find out what related material we already have. That way, you discover what already exists and can later create good links to and from other relevant articles. Additional research is usually necessary to write a great article. A great article has to be verifiable and cite reliable sources which ideally should include books or peer-reviewed journal articles. Consider visiting a university or public library to identify and study the best sources. Consider searching Wikipedias in other languages, looking at what search engines such as Google can bring up, and reading the relevant articles from other encyclopedias, to form an idea of what topics should be covered, in what depth, to achieve a comprehensive summary coverage. The following sites may help you: Encyclopedia.com and Encyclopedia Britannica Online. Finding relevant articles There are several ways to find and retrieve articles online, without having to leave home. Google Scholar is an excellent source for finding sometimes-free online peer-reviewed articles; note that the free articles' entries are quickly identifiable for having a "View as HTML" link in the result page. Other search engines for scholarly open access articles include CORE and BASE. For a host of free, searchable newspapers, see Wikipedia:Free English newspaper sources. Many libraries have agreements with paywalled database providers under which library users with current library cards can connect free to the databases from their home computers—that is, the users do not need to be physically present in the library. Check with your local public or academic library to find out to which databases it subscribes, and whether they have a mechanism in place for remote access. Some high-end databases (like InfoTrac and ProQuest) even carry scanned versions of articles as they were originally printed. Wikipedians are also eligible to apply for access to paywalled research databases via the Wikipedia Library. Partners with the Wikipedia Library inc contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 63 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Article_development responseCode 3 200 