wiyolaosbixgtijabalcvcxiucuqhsqejiwiesoa length 5 70313 page 1790 Verifiability Why references are important Adding references Automatically or manually Editing existing ones Always room for improvement Reusing references Some are just really useful Reliable sources Which sources are good enough? Summary Review of what you've learned << Back to tutorials menu "Wikipedian protester" by Randall Munroe, xkcd. Wikipedians famously demand citations for facts! Shortcut WP:INTREFVE One of the key policies of Wikipedia is that all article content has to be verifiable. This means that reliable sources must be able to support the material. All quotations, any material whose verifiability has been challenged or is likely to be challenged, and contentious material (whether negative, positive, or neutral) about living persons must include an inline citation to a source that directly supports the material. This also means that Wikipedia is not the place for original work, archival findings that have not been published, or evidence from any source that has not been published. If you are adding new content, it is your responsibility to add sourcing information along with it. Material provided without a source is significantly more likely to be removed from an article. Sometimes it will be tagged first with a "citation needed" template to give editors a chance to find and add sources, but often editors will simply remove it because they question its veracity. This tutorial will show you how to add inline citations to articles, and also briefly explain what Wikipedia considers to be a reliable source. Next >> Full user guide Markup referencing Introduction Starting introduction Policies and Guidelines Source editor Editing Referencing Images Tables VisualEditor Editing Referencing Images Tables Talk pages Navigating Manual of Style Conclusion contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 86 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Introduction_to_referencing_with_VisualEditor/1 responseCode 3 200 