wqbcciimkcxiteuebaogpgwgsclqnqjkogoeucag page 10104 General theory of mathematical structures This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (November 2009) (template removal help) Schematic representation of a category with objects X, Y, Z and morphisms f, g, g ∘ f. (The category's three identity morphisms 1X, 1Y and 1Z, if explicitly represented, would appear as three arrows, from the letters X, Y, and Z to themselves, respectively.) Category theory is a general theory of mathematical structures and their relations that was introduced by Samuel Eilenberg and Saunders Mac Lane in the middle of the 20th century in their foundational work on algebraic topology. Category theory is used in almost all areas of mathematics. In particular, numerous constructions of new mathematical objects from previous ones that appear similarly in several contexts are conveniently expressed and unified in terms of categories. Examples include quotient spaces, direct products, completion, and duality. Many areas of computer science also rely on category theory, such as functional programming and semantics. A category is formed by two sorts of objects: the objects of the category, and the morphisms, which relate two objects called the source and the target of the morphism. One often says that a morphism is an arrow that maps its source to its target. Morphisms can be composed if the target of the first morphism equals the source of the second one, and morphism composition has similar properties as function composition (associativity and existence of identity morphisms). Morphisms are often some sort of function, but this is not always the case. For example, a monoid may be viewed as a category with a single object, whose morphisms are the elements of the monoid. The second fundamental concept of category theory is the concept of a functor, which plays the role of a morphism between two categories C 1 {\displaystyle C_{1}} and C 2 : {\displaystyle C_{2}:} it maps objects of C 1 {\displaystyle C_{1}} to objects of C 2 {\displaystyle C_{2}} and morphisms of C 1 {\displaystyle C_{1}} to morphisms of C 2 {\displaystyle C_{2}} in such a way that sources are mapped to sources and targets are mapped to targets (or, in the case of a contravariant functor, sources are mapped to targets and vice-versa). A third fundamental concept is a natural transformation that may be viewed as a morphism of functors. Categories, objects, and morphisms[edit] Main articles: Category (mathematics) and Morphism Categories[edit] A category C consists of the following three mathematical entities: A class ob(C), whose elements are called objects; A class hom(C), whose elements are called morphisms or maps or arrows. Each morphism f has a source object a and target object b. The expression f : a → b, would be verbally stated as "f is a morphism from a to b". The expression hom(a, b) – alternatively expressed as homC(a, b), mor(a, b), or C(a, b) – denotes the hom-class of all morphisms from a to b. A binary operation ∘, called composition of morphisms, such that for any three objects a, b, and c, we have ∘ : hom(b, c) × hom(a, b) → hom(a, c). The composition of f : a → b and g : b → c is written as g ∘ f or gf,[a] governed by two axioms: 1. Associativity: If f : a → b, g : b → c, and h : c → d then h ∘ (g ∘ f) = (h ∘ g) ∘ f 2. Identity: For every object x, there exists a morphism 1x : x → x (also denoted as idx) called the identity morphism for x, such that for every morphism f : a → b, we have 1b ∘ f = f = f ∘ 1a From the axioms, it can be proved that there is exactly one identity morphism for every object. Morphisms[edit] Relations among morphisms (such as fg = h) are often depicted using commutative diagrams, with "points" (corners) representing objects and "arrows" representing morphisms. Morphisms can have any of the following properties. A morphism f : a → b is a: monomorphism (or monic) if f ∘ g1 = f ∘ g2 implies g1 = g2 for all morphisms g1, g2 : x → a. epimorphism (or epic) if g1 ∘ f = g2 ∘ f implies g1 = g2 for all morphisms g1, g2 : b → x. bimorphism if f is both epic and monic. isomorphism if there exists a morphism g : b → a such that f ∘ g = 1b and g ∘ f = 1a.[b] endomorphism if a = b. end(a) denotes the class of endomorphisms of a. automorphism if f is both an endomorphism and an isomorphism. aut(a) denotes the class of automorphisms of a. retraction if a right inverse of f exists, i.e. if there exists a morphism g : b → a with f ∘ g = 1b. section if a left inverse of f exists, i.e. if there exists a morphism g : b → a with g ∘ f = 1a. Every retraction is an epimorphism, and every section is a monomorphism. Furthermore, the following three statements are equivalent: f is a monomorphism and a retraction; f is an epimorphism and a section; f is an isomorphism. Functors[edit] Main article: Functor Functors are structure-preserving maps between categories. They can be thought of as morphisms in the category of all (small) categories. A (covariant) functor F from a category C to a category D, written F : C → D, consists of: for each object x in C, an object F(x) in D; and for each morphism f : x → y in C, a morphism F(f) : F(x) → F(y) in D, such that the following two properties hold: For every object x in C, F(1x) = 1F(x); For all morphisms f : x → y and g : y → z, F(g ∘ f) = F(g) ∘ F(f). A contravariant functor F: C → D is like a covariant functor, except that it "turns morphisms around" ("reverses all the arrows"). More specifically, every morphism f : x → y in C must be assigned to a morphism F(f) : F(y) → F(x) in D. In other words, a contravariant functor acts as a covariant functor from the opposite category Cop to D. Natural transformations[edit] Main article: Natural transformation A natural transformation is a relation between two functors. Functors often describe "natural constructions" and natural transformations then describe "natural homomorphisms" between two such constructions. Sometimes two quite different constructions yield "the same" result; this is expressed by a natural isomorphism between the two functors. If F and G are (covariant) functors between the categories C and D, then a natural transformation η from F to G associates to every object X in C a morphism ηX : F(X) → G(X) in D such that for every morphism f : X → Y in C, we have ηY ∘ F(f) = G(f) ∘ ηX; this means that the following diagram is commutative: Commutative diagram defining natural transformations The two functors F and G are called naturally isomorphic if there exists a natural transformation from F to G such that ηX is an isomorphism for every object X in C. Other concepts[edit] Universal constructions, limits, and colimits[edit] Main articles: Universal property and Limit (category theory) Using the language of category theory, many areas of mathematical study can be categorized. Categories include sets, groups and topologies. Each category is distinguished by properties that all its objects have in common, such as the empty set or the product of two topologies, yet in the definition of a category, objects are considered atomic, i.e., we do not know whether an object A is a set, a topology, or any other abstract concept. Hence, the challenge is to define special objects without referring to the internal structure of those objects. To define the empty set without referring to elements, or the product topology without referring to open sets, one can characterize these objects in terms of their relations to other objects, as given by the morphisms of the respective categories. Thus, the task is to find universal properties that uniquely determine the objects of interest. Numerous important constructions can be described in a purely categorical way if the category limit can be developed and dualized to yield the notion of a colimit. Equivalent categories[edit] Main articles: Equivalence of categories and Isomorphism of categories It is a natural question to ask: under which conditions can two categories be considered essentially the same, in the sense that theorems about one category can readily be transformed into theorems about the other category? The major tool one employs to describe such a situation is called equivalence of categories, which is given by appropriate functors between two categories. Categorical equivalence has found numerous applications in mathematics. Further concepts and results[edit] The definitions of categories and functors provide only the very basics of categorical algebra; additional important topics are listed below. Although there are strong interrelations between all of these topics, the given order can be considered as a guideline for further reading. The functor category DC has as objects the functors from C to D and as morphisms the natural transformations of such functors. The Yoneda lemma is one of the most famous basic results of category theory; it describes representable functors in functor categories. Duality: Every statement, theorem, or definition in category theory has a dual which is essentially obtained by "reversing all the arrows". If one statement is true in a category C then its dual is true in the dual category Cop. This duality, which is transparent at the level of category theory, is often obscured in applications and can lead to surprising relationships. Adjoint functors: A functor can be left (or right) adjoint to another functor that maps in the opposite direction. Such a pair of adjoint functors typically arises from a construction defined by a universal property; this can be seen as a more abstract and powerful view on universal properties. Higher-dimensional categories[edit] Main article: Higher category theory Many of the above concepts, especially equivalence of categories, adjoint functor pairs, and functor categories, can be situated into the context of higher-dimensional categories. Briefly, if we consider a morphism between  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Category_theory responseCode 3 200 