wqjsusviikgkeksogswioidqwcwgikhmfepmkihq length 6 228742 page 10003 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... Please add the line ==={{subst:CURRENTDAY}} {{subst:CURRENTMONTHNAME}} {{subst:CURRENTYEAR}}=== for each new day and the time the set was removed from the DYK template at the top for the newly posted set of archived hooks. This will ensure all times are based on UTC time and accurate. This page should be archived once a month. Thanks. 31 January 2019 00:00, 31 January 2019 (UTC) Funeral procession of Winston Churchill ... that Operation Hope Not was the codename for planning Winston Churchill's funeral (procession pictured), the largest state funeral in British history? ... that a clinic in Mopti, Mali, is named after Werner Bardenhewer, born 90 years ago today, who was for decades priest of St. Bonifatius, Wiesbaden, and then founded a charity group? ... that astronaut Buzz Aldrin discovered the Aldrin cycler, a means of repeatedly traveling between Earth and Mars? ... that the Qarmatian movement began when Hamdan Qarmat denounced the claims of Abdallah, the future founder of the Fatimid Caliphate, to be the Islamic Messiah? ... that in a music video for Belgian singer Loïc Nottet's "Rhythm Inside", several people are portrayed as being taken to a warehouse, for what some viewers believed was human experimentation? ... that Dave Pickerell was known as the "Johnny Appleseed" of craft distilling? ... that video game magazine GameStar called Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne the best add-on in PC gaming history? ... that physician Fulke Rose treated the privateer Henry Morgan with millipede powder and oil of scorpion? 30 January 2019 00:00, 30 January 2019 (UTC) The Duke of Windsor inspecting German troops in 1937 ... that during the Duke and Duchess of Windsor's 1937 tour of Germany (pictured), their alcoholic chaperone Robert Ley crashed them at speed through a factory gate? ... that catwalk model Michelle Leslie claimed police in Bali, Indonesia, planted two ecstasy tablets in her handbag and then asked for a US$25,000 bribe to avoid conviction? ... that the jellyfish Sanderia malayensis has a life cycle that includes a number of different types of asexual reproduction? ... that Meghan Trainor canceled several dates on the MTrain Tour after suffering a vocal cord hemorrhage? ... that rivalries encourage people to take more risks and behave less ethically? ... that the BBC head of drama stated that the Slater family in EastEnders was created to address a deficit of "solid families" in the soap? ... that actress Naomi Watts is honorary president of the Welsh football club Glantraeth F.C.? ... that the 18th-century Chinese short story "Three Lives" was adapted into a 2016 play featuring hip hop and a live band? 29 January 2019 00:00, 29 January 2019 (UTC) Macleay's glassfish ... that Macleay's glassfish (pictured) is partly transparent? ... that the historian Thomas Henry Dyer described the Convention of Alessandria as "one of the most disgraceful capitulations in history"? ... that in 1720, wealthy merchant-adventurer Sir David Hechstetter directed that his body be buried without any "pompous ostentation"? ... that after the Philo Power Plant was demolished, the rotors from turbine six were utilized in a sculpture created by George Greenamyer? ... that in the fourth quarter of 2017, Transsion Holdings had the largest market share for sales of smartphones in Africa, overtaking Samsung? ... that Chinese revolutionary leader Sun Yat-sen referred to Comintern agent Mikhail Borodin as his "Lafayette"? ... that the 1991 music video for the Sesame Street song "Monster in the Mirror" featured 25 celebrities, including Robin Williams, Whoopi Goldberg, and The Simpsons characters? ... that a Japanese spy helped compose the Indonesian declaration of independence? 28 January 2019 00:00, 28 January 2019 (UTC) Man Mohan Singh ... that in 1930, Man Mohan Singh (pictured) flew his Gipsy Moth Miss India solo from Croydon Airport, South London, to PAF Base Faisal, Karachi? ... that when a reviewer labelled his song "Don't Miss It" as "sad boy" music, James Blake called the term "unhealthy and problematic"? ... that at age 17, the English actress Emily Lloyd reportedly beat over 5,000 others, including Jodie Foster, for the lead role in the 1989 film Cookie? ... that the video game This Is Football 2002 had the controversial feature of allowing players to deliberately dive? ... that the space climate discipline researches how solar wind and interplanetary magnetic field fluctuations can affect Earth over timescales ranging from a few weeks to more than 1,000 years? ... that although Giorgio Mitrovich respected and admired the British, he criticised the British colonial administration of Malta for its lack of freedom of the press? ... that the Royal Air Force's AMES Type 85 radar was considered obsolete by the time it became operational? ... that 13 was a lucky number for American movie theater magnate Harry E. Huffman? 27 January 2019 00:00, 27 January 2019 (UTC) Marble bust of Epicurus ... that the ancient Greek philosopher Epicurus (bust pictured) taught that the only reliable way to learn about the world is through empirical observation? ... that the superhero form of the fictional character Marinette Dupain-Cheng was based on a woman wearing a ladybug-themed T-shirt who once worked with the creator of Miraculous: Tales of Ladybug & Cat Noir? ... that Denver community activist Arlene Hirschfeld lives in Shangri-La? ... that the International Encyclopedia of Women Composers was written partially in response to a comment by Thomas Beecham who said, "There are no women composers, never have been and possibly never will be"? ... that James A. Doonan purchased the cannons in front of Healy Hall, which date to 1634? ... that inflating balloons into lung arteries may be considered for people with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension who are not suitable for surgery? ... that Marianne Schech appeared as the Dyer's Wife in the U.S. premiere of Die Frau ohne Schatten by Richard Strauss at the San Francisco Opera? ... that HMS Sportsman sank twelve Axis ships during World War II? 26 January 2019 00:00, 26 January 2019 (UTC) F. W. Bernstein ... that the poet, cartoonist, and satirist F. W. Bernstein (pictured) was appointed professor of caricature and comics in Berlin in 1984, the only such chair in the world at the time? ... that tropical cyclones may have induced past climate changes and could still be causing El Niño type events today? ... that Simon Kaloa Kaʻai, a former jailer, became a noble and cabinet minister to a king? ... that an 1832 auction of the contents of Cullands Grove included three hundred and seventy cases of wine, two Shetland ponies, a fire engine, and two "humane" man traps? ... that David Gwynne-James represented the King's Shropshire Light Infantry in cricket, rugby, hockey, squash, skiing, and athletics? ... that the 2005 pop-rock/dance album Rollercoaster, by former American Idol finalist Jim Verraros, was inspired by the music of George Michael and Green Day? ... that Zhuo-Hua Pan, credited by some as the inventor of optogenetics, had his paper describing the technique rejected by multiple journals? ... that the Russian youth movement Lion Versus opposes public smoking by spraying smokers' hands with water to douse their cigarettes? 25 January 2019 00:00, 25 January 2019 (UTC) 19th-century design for the Rondebosch Fountain ... that Rondebosch Fountain (pictured), a cast-iron water trough and one of the first electric street lights in South Africa, is being rebuilt in aluminium after contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 73 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2019/January responseCode 3 200 