wqsksadckgvifinozieenqsmkovmxcqsjsbcfkro length 6 323171 page 10040 Polish writer and activist (born 1962) Olga Tokarczuk Tokarczuk in 2019 Born Olga Nawoja Tokarczuk (1962-01-29) 29 January 1962 (age 61) Sulechów, Poland Occupation Writer psychologist screenwriter Language Polish Nationality Polish Education University of Warsaw (MA) Period Contemporary Genres Novel travelogue essay poetry Literary movement Magic realism Years active 1989–present Notable works Primeval and Other Times (1996) Flights (2007) Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead (2009) The Books of Jacob (2014) Notable awards Nike Award (2008, 2015) Vilenica Prize (2013) Brückepreis (2015) The Man Booker International Prize (2018) Jan Michalski Prize (2018) Nobel Prize in Literature (2018) Prix Laure Bataillon (2019) Signature Olga Nawoja Tokarczuk[1] ([tɔˈkart͡ʂuk]; born 29 January 1962) is a Polish writer, activist,[2] and public intellectual.[3] She is one of the most critically acclaimed and successful authors of her generation in Poland; in 2019, she was awarded the 2018 Nobel Prize in Literature as the first Polish female prose writer for "a narrative imagination that with encyclopedic passion represents the crossing of boundaries as a form of life". For her novel Flights, Tokarczuk has been awarded the 2018 Man Booker International Prize (translated by Jennifer Croft). Her works include Primeval and Other Times, Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead, and The Books of Jacob. Tokarczuk is noted for the mythical tone of her writing. A clinical psychologist from the University of Warsaw, she has published a collection of poems, several novels, as well as other books with shorter prose works. For Flights and The Books of Jacob, she won the Nike Awards, Poland's top literary prize, among other accolades; she has also won the Nike audience award five times. In 2015, she received the German-Polish Bridge Prize for her contribution to mutual understanding between European nations. Tokarczuk faced some backlash from nationalist groups in her homeland after the publication of The Books of Jacob, which is set in 18th-century Poland, because the novel celebrates the country's cultural diversity. Her works have been translated into almost 40 languages, making her one of the most translated contemporary Polish writers.[4] The Books of Jacob, regarded as her magnum opus, was released in the UK in November 2021 after seven years of translation work,[5] followed by release in the US in February 2022.[6] In March that year, the novel was shortlisted for the 2022 International Booker Prize.[7] Biography[edit] Early life, and education[edit] Olga Tokarczuk was born in Sulechów near Zielona Góra, in western Poland. She is the daughter of two teachers, Wanda Słabowska and Józef Tokarczuk, and has a sister.[8] Her parents were resettled from former Polish eastern regions after the Second World War; one of her grandmothers was of Ukrainian origin.[9][10][11] The family lived in the countryside in Klenica, some 11 mi away from Zielona Góra, where her parents taught at the People's University and her father also ran a school library in which she found her love of literature.[12] Her father was a member of the Polish United Workers' Party.[13] As a child, Tokarczuk liked Henryk Sienkiewicz's popular novel In Desert and Wilderness and fairy tales, among others.[14] Her family later moved south-east to Kietrz in Opolian Silesia, where she graduated from the C.K. Norwid High school.[15] In 1979, she debuted with two short stories in prose published in youth scouting magazine Na Przełaj (No. 39, under the pseudonym Natasza Borodin). Tokarczuk went on to study clinical psychology at the University of Warsaw in 1980, and during her studies, she volunteered in an asylum for adolescents with behavioural problems.[16] After graduation in 1985, she moved to Wrocław and later to Wałbrzych, where she worked as a psychotherapist in 1986–89 and teachers' trainer in 1989–96. In the meantime, she published poems and reviews in the press, and published a book of poetry in 1989. Her works were awarded at Walbrzych Literary Paths (1988, 1990).[8] Tokarczuk quit to concentrate on literature, she also said she felt "more neurotic than [her] clients."[12] She worked doing odd jobs in London for a while, improving her English, and went for literary scholarships in the United States (1996) and in Berlin (2001/02).[8] Inspiration, and family[edit] Tokarczuk in Kraków, Poland (2005) Tokarczuk considers herself a disciple of Carl Jung and cites his psychology as an inspiration for her literary work.[17][18][19] Since 1998, she has lived between Krajanów and Wrocław, in Lower Silesia. Her home in Krajanów near Nowa Ruda is located in the Sudetes mountains at the multi-cultural Polish-Czech borderland. The locale has influenced her literary work;[15] the novel House of Day, House of Night (1998) touches on life in the adopted home, and the action of Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead (2009) takes place in the picturesque Kłodzko Valley. In 1998, together with her first husband, Tokarczuk founded the Ruta publishing house, which operated until 2004.[8] She was an organizer of the International Short Story Festival, which was inaugurated in Wrocław in 2004. As a guest lecturer, she conducted prose workshops at universities in Kraków and Opole. Tokarczuk joined the editorial team of Krytyka Polityczna (Eng. ed. Political Critique), a magazine as well as a large pan-regional network of institutions and activists, and currently serves on the Board of trustees of its academic and research unit – Institute for Advance Study in Warsaw. She also travelled around the world.[8][20] In 2009, Tokarczuk received a literary scholarship from the Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, and during her stay at the NIAS campus in Wassenaar, she wrote her novel Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead, which was published the same year.[8][14] Roman Fingas, a fellow psychologist, was Tokarczuk's first husband. They married when she was 23 and later divorced; their son Zbigniew was born in 1986. Grzegorz Zygadło is her second husband. She is a vegetarian.[14] Literary career[edit] Olga Tokarczuk's first book was published in 1989, a collection of poems entitled Miasta w lustrach (Cities in Mirrors).[16] Her debut novel, Podróż ludzi księgi (The Journey of the Book-People), was published in 1993. A parable on two lovers' quest for the "secret of the Book" – a metaphor for the meaning of life – is set in the 17th century, and portrays an expedition to a monastery in the Pyrenees on the trail of a book which reveals the mystery of life, ending with an ironic twist. It was well received by critics and won Polish Publisher's Prize for best debut.[21] Ever since then, Tokarczuk's novels and short stories have ranked her amongst the top of Polish contemporary writers of prose. The follow-up novel E.E. (1995) plays with the conventions of the modernist psychological novel, and took its title from the initials of its protagonist, the adolescent Erna Eltzner, who develops psychic abilities. Growing up in a wealthy German-Polish family in the 1920s in Wrocław, which was at that time a German city named Breslau, she allegedly becomes a medium, a fact her mother begins to take advantage of by organizing spiritual sessions. Tokarczuk introduces the characters of scientists, the psychiatrist-patient relationship, and despite elements of spiritualism, occultism as well as gnosticism, she represents psychological realism and cognitive scepticism. Katarzyna Kantner, a literary scholar who defended her PhD thesis on the works of Olga Tokarczuk, points to C. G. Jung's doctoral dissertation "On the Psychology and Pathology of So-Called Occult Phenomena" as an inspiration.[17][22] Her third novel, Primeval and Other Times (Prawiek i inne czasy, Eng. 2010), was published in 1996 and became highly successful. It is set in the fictitious village of Primeval at the very heart of Poland, which is populated by some eccentric, archetypical characters. The village, a microcosm of Europe, is guarded by four archangels, from whose perspective the book chronicles the lives of its inhabitants over a period of eight decades, beginning in the year that World War I broke out.[23] The book presents the creation of a myth emerging before the reader's eyes. "This is Primeval: an enclosed snow globe, a world in itself, which it may or may not be possible to ever leave. [...] And yet, as much as the town of Primeval is devastated, over and over, by history, there is also a counter dream, full of creaturely magic and wonder."[24] Translated into many languages, with English version by Antonia Lloyd-Jones, Primeval and Other Times established Tokarczuk's international reputation as one of the most important representatives of Polish literature in her generation.[25][26] After Primeval and Other Times, her work began drifting away from the novel genre towards shorter prose texts and essays. Tokarczuk's next book Szafa (The Wardrobe, 1997) was a collection of three novella-type stories. House of Day, House of Night (Dom dzienny, dom nocny, 1998, Eng. 2003), is what Tokarczuk terms the 'constellation novel', a patchwork of loosely connected disparate stories, sketches, and essays about life past and present in the author's adopted home in Krajanów, which allow various interpretations and enable communication at a deeper, psychological level. Her goal is to make those images, fragments of narrative and motif, merge together only on entering the reader's consciousness. While some, at least those unfamiliar with Central European history, have labelled it Tokarczuk's most "difficult" piece, it was her first book to be published in English, and was shortlisted for the International Dublin Literary Award in 2004.[27][28] Olga Tokarczuk (left) and director Agnieszka Holland in 2017 House of Day, House of Night was followed by a collection of short stories Gra na wielu bębenkach (Playing on Many Drums, 2001) as w contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Olga_Tokarczuk responseCode 3 200 