xagagcqiyifqzifktojegcgaugyemsliucombkxc length 7 1667693 page 10042 Wikipedia project page for listing identified groupings of articles "WP:FT" redirects here. You may be looking for Wikipedia:Fringe theories. Featured topics in Wikipedia This star symbolizes the featured topics on Wikipedia. A featured topic is a collection of inter-related articles that are of a good quality (though not necessarily featured articles). A featured topic represents Wikipedia's best work by thoroughly covering all parts of that topic through several high-quality articles that share a similar structure and are well-linked with each other. To become featured, a topic must meet a set of criteria. Featured topics are nominated and discussed at the Wikipedia:Featured and good topic candidates page, where they are either accepted or rejected. Additions to existing featured topics are also discussed there. Do not add an article directly to a featured topic without nominating it first. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] There are currently 185 featured topics that encompass 1,571 unique articles. There are 57 articles concurrently in two featured topics, 10 articles in a featured topic and a good topic, 7 articles in two featured topics and a good topic, and 2 articles in a featured topic and two good topics. There are 47 topics in which every article is featured if possible. In the topic boxes below: indicates that the article is a featured article or featured list. indicates that the article is a good article. indicates that the article is an audited article of limited subject matter or inherent instability. indicates that every article in the topic is featured if possible. indicates that the article has lost its good or featured article status, or was previously an audited article of limited subject matter, but no longer is (only in the case of a topic under grace period). Shortcuts WP:FT WP:FTOP Featured content: Featured articles Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics ← Good content: Good articles Good topics ← Featured and good topic tools: Topic criteria Topic candidates Topic removal candidates Nomination procedure Topic log Topics on the Main Page Former topics Topic questions Contents Art, architecture and archaeology Awards, decorations and vexillology Biology Chemistry and mineralogy Culture and society Education Food and drink Geography and places Geology, geophysics and meteorology History Law Literature and theatre Media Music Physics and astronomy Politics and government Religion, mysticism and mythology Sports and recreation Transport Video games Warfare Art, architecture and archaeology view | edit | discuss Four Freedoms (Norman Rockwell) 5 articles Freedom of Speech Freedom of Worship Freedom from Want Freedom from Fear view | edit | discuss Grade I listed buildings in Somerset 8 articles List in Bath and North East Somerset List in Mendip List in North Somerset List in Sedgemoor List in South Somerset List in Taunton Deane List in West Somerset view | edit | discuss John Douglas Featured topic 5 articles List of his new churches List of his church restorations, amendments and furniture List of his houses and associated buildings List of his non-ecclesiastical and non-residential works view | edit | discuss National Treasures of Japan 14 articles Castles Residences Shrines Temples Ancient Documents Archaeological Materials Crafts: others Crafts: swords Paintings Sculptures Writings: Chinese books Writings: Japanese books Writings: others Awards, decorations and vexillology view | edit | discuss Laureus World Sports Awards 11 articles Sportsman Breakthrough Sportsperson with a Disability Sport for Good Sportswoman Action Sportsperson Spirit of Sport Team Comeback Lifetime Achievement edit | discuss Nobel laureates Featured topic 7 articles Chemistry Economics Literature Peace Physics Physiology or Medicine view | edit | discuss Padma Bhushan 8 articles Award recipients (1954–1959) Award recipients (1960–1969) Award recipients (1970–1979) Award recipients (1980–1989) Award recipients (1990–1999) Award recipients (2000–2009) Award recipients (2010–2019) edit | discuss Victoria Cross Featured topic 8 articles Victoria Cross for Australia Victoria Cross (Canada) Victoria Cross for New Zealand List of Victoria Cross recipients (A–F) List of Victoria Cross recipients (G–M) List of Victoria Cross recipients (N–Z) Recipients by campaign (subtopic) edit | discuss Victoria Cross recipients by campaign Featured topic 9 articles Crimean War Indian Mutiny New Zealand Wars Zulu War Second Anglo-Afghan War Second Boer War First World War Second World War Biology edit | discuss Chough 3 articles Red-billed chough Alpine chough edit | discuss Crag martin 5 articles Eurasian crag martin Dusky crag martin Rock martin Pale crag martin view | edit | discuss Animals in lagomorpha Featured topic 3 articles Species in leporidae Species in ochotonidae edit | discuss Mesozoic mammals of Madagascar 4 articles Ambondro Lavanify UA 8699 edit | discuss Oryzomys 10 articles Oryzomys albiventer Oryzomys antillarum Oryzomys couesi Oryzomys dimidiatus Oryzomys gorgasi Oryzomys nelsoni Marsh rice rat Parasites Oryzomys peninsulae edit | discuss Raphinae 3 articles Dodo Rodrigues solitaire edit | discuss River martin 3 articles African river martin White-eyed river martin edit | discuss Transandinomys Featured topic 3 articles Transandinomys bolivaris Transandinomys talamancae edit | discuss Voalavo 3 articles Eastern voalavo Northern voalavo Chemistry and mineralogy edit | discuss Period 1 elements 3 articles Hydrogen Helium Culture and society edit | discuss United States nickels Featured topic 5 articles Shield nickel Liberty Head nickel Buffalo nickel Jefferson nickel edit | discuss United States Bicentennial coinage Featured topic 4 articles Washington quarter Kennedy half dollar Eisenhower dollar Education edit | discuss Jesus College, Oxford 10 articles Buildings List of founding Fellows, Scholars and Commissioners List of Principals and Fellows List of Honorary Fellows Jesus College Boat Club List of alumni Clergy Politicians, lawyers, and civil servants Mathematicians, physicians, and scientists view | edit | discuss Presidents of Georgetown University 42 articles Robert Plunkett Robert Molyneux Louis William Valentine DuBourg Leonard Neale Francis Neale William Matthews Giovanni Antonio Grassi Benedict Joseph Fenwick Anthony Kohlmann Enoch Fenwick Stephen Larigaudelle Dubuisson William Feiner John W. Beschter Thomas F. Mulledy William McSherry Joseph A. Lopez James A. Ryder Samuel Mulledy Charles H. Stonestreet Bernard A. Maguire John Early Patrick Francis Healy James A. Doonan J. Havens Richards John D. Whitney Jerome Daugherty David Hillhouse Buel Joseph J. Himmel Alphonsus J. Donlon John B. Creeden Charles W. Lyons W. Coleman Nevils Arthur A. O'Leary Lawrence C. Gorman J. Hunter Guthrie Edward B. Bunn Gerard J. Campbell Robert J. Henle Timothy S. Healy Leo J. O'Donovan John J. DeGioia edit | discuss United States Naval Academy alumni Featured topic 5 articles Astronauts Chiefs of Naval Operations Legislators Medal of Honor recipients Geography and places edit | discuss Everglades 8 articles Geography and ecology Indigenous people of the region Draining and development Restoration Everglades National Park List of invasive species Marjory Stoneman Douglas view | edit | discuss Scheduled monuments in Somerset 8 articles Monuments in Bath and North East Somerset Monuments in Mendip Monuments in North Somerset Monuments in Sedgemoor Monuments in South Somerset Monuments in Taunton Deane Monuments in West Somerset Geology, geophysics and meteorology edit | discuss 1941 Atlantic hurricane season 3 articles 1941 Texas hurricane 1941 Florida hurricane edit | discuss 1990–91 South Pacific cyclone season 4 articles Cyclone Sina Cyclone Joy Timeline edit | discuss 1991 Atlantic hurricane season 4 articles Hurricane Bob Hurricane Grace Perfect Storm edit | discuss 1995 Pacific hurricane season 4 articles Hurricane Henriette Hurricane Ismael Hurricane Juliette edit | discuss 1997 Atlantic hurricane season 3 articles Hurricane Danny Hurricane Erika edit | discuss 1998 Pacific hurricane season 4 articles Hurricane Isis Hurricane Lester Hurricane Madeline edit | discuss 2002 Atlantic hurricane season 12 articles Tropical Storm Arthur Tropical Storm Bertha Tropical Storm Cristobal Tropical Storm Edouard Tropical Storm Fay Hurricane Gustav Tropical Storm Hanna Hurricane Isidore Hurricane Kyle Hurricane Lili Timeline edit | discuss 2006 Pacific hurricane season 11 articles Timeline Tropical Depression Two-E Hurricane Daniel Tropical Storm Emilia Hurricane Ioke Hurricane John Hurricane Lane Tropical Storm Norman Hurricane Paul Hurricane Sergio view | edit | discuss 2018 Pacific hurricane season 14 articles Hurricane Bud Tropical Storm Ileana Tropical Depression Nineteen-E Hurricane Walaka Timeline of the 2018 Pacific hurricane season Tropical Storm Carlotta Hurricane Lane Hurricane Rosa Tropical Storm Vicente Hurricane Hector Hurricane Olivia Hurricane Sergio Hurricane Willa edit | discuss Category 5 Pacific hurricanes 18 articles Hurricane Ava Hurricane Emilia (1994) Hurricane Gilma (1994) Hurricane John (1994) Hurricane Guillermo (1997) Hurricane Linda (1997) Hurricane Elida (2002) Hurricane Hernan (2002) Hurricane Kenna Hurricane Ioke Hurricane Rick (2009) Hurricane Celia (2010) Hurricane Marie (2014) Hurricane Patricia Hurricane Lane (2018) Hurricane Walaka Hurricane Willa edit | discuss Hurricane Isabel 8 articles Effects in Delaware Effects in Maryland and Washington, D.C. Effects in New Jersey Effects in New York and New England Effects in North Carolina Effects in Pennsylvania Effects in Virginia edit | discuss Florida hurricanes Featured topic 6 articles Pre-1900 1900–49 1950–74 1975–99 2000–present edit | discuss North Carolina hurricanes Featured topic 5 articles Pre-1900 1900–49 1950–79 1980–99 2000–present History edit | discuss Armero tragedy Featured topic 3 articles Nevado del Ruiz Omayra S contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_topics responseCode 3 200 