xcdkmguofoomvqxiwokmgsicmcpiggqehocgrqya length 6 144694 page 10014 Cricket played at the highest domestic standard Part of a series on Cricket Cricket pictogram Women's cricket Forms of cricket Test cricket Men's format Women's format First-class cricket Men's format Women's format One Day International Men's format Women's format Limited overs (domestic) Limited overs cricket List A cricket Twenty20 International Men's format Women's format Twenty20 (domestic) Men's format Women's format Other forms 100-ball cricket Backyard cricket Bete-ombro Blind cricket Club cricket Crocker Deaf cricket French cricket Indoor cricket UK variant Kilikiti Plaquita Single wicket Softball cricket T10 cricket Tape ball cricket Tennis ball cricket Vigoro Village cricket International competitions ICC World Test Championship ICC Men's Test Team Rankings Cricket World Cup Women's Cricket World Cup ICC Men's T20 World Cup ICC Women's T20 World Cup ICC Champions Trophy ICC Cricket World Cup League 2 ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League Euro T20 Slam Asia Cup East Africa Premier League World Cricket League Africa Region Cricket at the Olympics Cricket at the Asian Games History of cricket History of cricket to 1725 History of cricket (1726–1750) History of cricket (1751–1775) History of cricket (1776–1800) History of cricket (1801–1825) History of women's cricket Records v t e First-class cricket, along with List A cricket and Twenty20 cricket, is one of the highest-standard forms of cricket. A first-class match is one of three or more days' scheduled duration between two sides of eleven players each and is officially adjudged to be worthy of the status by virtue of the standard of the competing teams. Matches must allow for the teams to play two innings each, although in practice a team might play only one innings or none at all. The etymology of "first-class cricket" is unknown, but it was used loosely before it acquired official status in 1895, following a meeting of leading English clubs. At a meeting of the Imperial Cricket Conference (ICC) in 1947, it was formally defined on a global basis. A significant omission of the ICC ruling was any attempt to define first-class cricket retrospectively. That has left historians, and especially statisticians, with the problem of how to categorise earlier matches, especially those played in Great Britain before 1895. The Association of Cricket Statisticians and Historians (ACS) has published a list of early matches which are believed to have been of a high standard. Test cricket, the highest standard of cricket, is statistically a form of first-class cricket, though the term "first-class" is mainly used to refer to domestic competition. A player's first-class statistics include any performances in Test matches. Initial usage under MCC ruling, May 1894[edit] Before 1894 "first-class" was a common adjective applied to cricket matches in England, used loosely to suggest that a match had a high standard; adjectives like "great", "important" and "major" were also loosely applied to such matches, but there tended to be differences of opinion. In the inaugural issue of Cricket: A Weekly Record of the Game on 10 May 1882, the term is used twice on page 2 in reference to the recently completed tour of Australia and New Zealand by Alfred Shaw's XI. The report says it is "taking" the first-class matches to be one against Sydney (sic), two each against Victoria, the Combined team and the Australian Eleven, and another against South Australia.[1] In the fourth issue on 1 June 1882, James Lillywhite refers to first-class matches on the tour but gives a different list.[2] The earliest known match scorecards date from 1744 but few have been found before 1772.[3][4] The cards for three 1772 matches have survived and scorecards became increasingly common thereafter.[5] At the beginning of the 1860s, there were only four formally constituted county clubs. Sussex was the oldest, formed in 1839, and it had been followed by Kent, Nottinghamshire and Surrey. In the early 1860s, several more county clubs were founded, and questions began to be raised in the sporting press about which should be categorised as first-class, but there was considerable disagreement in the answers. In 1880, the Cricket Reporting Agency was founded. It acquired influence through the decade especially by association with Wisden Cricketers' Almanack (Wisden) and the press came to generally rely on its information and opinions.[6] The term acquired official status, though limited to matches in Great Britain, following a meeting at Lord's in May 1894 between the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) committee and the secretaries of the clubs involved in the official County Championship, which had begun in 1890. As a result, those clubs became first-class from 1895 along with MCC, Cambridge University, Oxford University, senior cricket touring teams (i.e., Australia and South Africa at that time) and other teams designated as such by MCC (e.g., North v South, Gentlemen v Players and occasional "elevens" which consisted of recognised first-class players).[7] Officially, therefore, the inaugural first-class match was the opening game of the 1895 season between MCC and Nottinghamshire at Lord's on 1 and 2 May, MCC winning by 37 runs.[8] "Test match" was another loosely applied term at the time but the first list of matches considered to be "Tests" was conceived and published by South Australian journalist Clarence P. Moody in his 1894 book, Australian Cricket and Cricketers, 1856 to 1893–94. His proposal was widely accepted after a list of 39 matches was reproduced in the 28 December 1894 issue of Cricket magazine. The list began with the Melbourne Cricket Ground match played 15–17 March 1877 and ended with a recent match at the Association Ground, Sydney played 14–20 December 1894.[9] All of Moody's matches, plus four additional ones, were retrospectively recognised as Test matches and also, thereby, as first-class matches.[10] Formal definition under ICC ruling, May 1947[edit] The term "first-class cricket" was formally defined by the then Imperial Cricket Conference (ICC) on 19 May 1947. It was made clear that the definition "will not have retrospective effect".[11] The definition is as follows:[11] A match of three or more days' duration between two sides of eleven players officially adjudged first-class, shall be regarded as a first-class fixture. Matches in which either team have more than eleven players or which are scheduled for less than three days shall not be regarded as first-class. The Governing body in each country shall decide the status of teams. For example, MCC was authorised to determine the status of matches played in Great Britain. To all intents and purposes, the 1947 ICC definition confirmed the 1894 MCC definition, and gave it international recognition and usage. Hence, official judgment of status is the responsibility of the governing body in each country that is a full member of the International Cricket Council (ICC). The governing body grants first-class status to international teams and to domestic teams that are representative of the country's highest playing standard. Later ICC rulings make it possible for international teams from associate members of the ICC to achieve first-class status but it is dependent on the status of their opponents in a given match.[12] Definition[edit] According to the ICC definition, a match may be adjudged first-class if:[12] it is of three or more days scheduled duration each side playing the match has eleven players each side may have two innings the match is played on natural, and not artificial, turf the match is played at a venue which meets certain standard criteria regarding venues the match conforms to the Laws of Cricket, except for only minor amendments the sport's governing body in the appropriate nation, or the ICC itself, recognises the match as first-class. A Test match is a first-class match played between two ICC full member countries, subject to their current status at the ICC and the application of ICC conditions when the match is played.[12] Recognised matches[edit] In 2010, the ICC published its Classification of Official Cricket which includes the criteria with which a match must comply to achieve a desired categorisation. In the section on first-class cricket, there is a list of the types of match that should qualify. It is important to note, given the differences in opinion about what constitutes a first-class match, that the ICC clearly stipulates that its match type list "is not exhaustive and is merely indicative of the matches which would fall into the first-class definition". For example, the list includes matches of recognised first-class teams versus international touring teams; and the leading domestic championships (using their then-current names) such as the County Championship, Sheffield Shield, Ranji Trophy, etc.[12] Examples of first-class domestic competitions[edit] Current active men's competitions[edit] Country Name Notes England County Championship South Africa 4-Day Domestic Series Australia Sheffield Shield New Zealand Plunket Shield India Ranji Trophy Duleep Trophy Competition between zonal teams selected by BCCI Irani Cup Played between the winner of Ranji Trophy and a Rest of India team selected by BCCI Pakistan Quaid-e-Azam Trophy Played by zonal associations since 2019. West Indies Regional Four Day Competition Sri Lanka Major League Tournament Bangladesh National Cricket League Played by 8 division-based teams selected by the BCB. Bangladesh Cricket League Played between 4 zone teams selected by the BCB Zimbabwe Logan Cup Afghanistan Ahmad Shah Abdali 4-day Tournament Ireland Inter-Provincial Championship Retrospective classification of matches played before the definitions[edit] The absence of any ICC ruling about matches played before 1947 (or before 1895 in Great Britain) is problematic for those cricket statisticians who wish to categorise earlier matches in the same way. They have responded by compiling t contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 53 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/First-class_cricket responseCode 3 200 