xgumzcymderqpigadckqroogjocayguqrioqzirq page 10008 Wikimedia project page for Main Page error reporting Shortcuts WP:ERRORS WP:MP/E Please post error reports regarding only what is currently or imminently on the Main Page. For general discussion about the Main Page, please use its talk page. Most issues relating to national variations of the English language have already been discussed here at length: Wikipedia does not prefer any national variety of English. Although Wikipedia strives for writing common to all varieties of English, some spelling, grammar or terminology it uses may be different or otherwise absent in yours. See the relevant style guide and a comparison of American and British English. To report an error in current or upcoming Main Page content, please add it to the appropriate section below. Main Page toolbox Yesterday November 19 Today November 20, 2023 Tomorrow November 21 TFA TFA TFA SA/OTD SA/OTD SA/OTD POTD Main Page v. POTD Main Page v. POTD Main Page v. POTD regular v. POTD regular v. POTD regular v. TFL (Monday) Main Page queue In the news candidates discussion admin instructions Did you know nominations discussion queue BotErrors Protected pages Commons media protection Associated Error reports General discussion FAQ Help CSS Sandbox CSS History Alternatives April Fools' It is currently 23:20 UTC. Purge the Main Page Purge this page Where is the error? An exact quotation of all or part of the text in question will help. Please offer a correction if possible. References are helpful, especially when reporting an obscure factual or grammatical error. Time zones: The Main Page runs on Coordinated Universal Time (UTC, currently 23:20 on 20 November 2023), not adjusted to your local time zone. Do not use {{edit fully-protected}} on this page, which will not give you a faster response; it is unnecessary as this page is not protected and will in fact cause problems if used here, as this is not a talk page. (See the bottom of this revision for an example.) Done? Once an error has been fixed, rotated off the Main Page or acknowledged not to be an error, the report will be removed from this page; please check the revision history for a record of any discussion or action taken, as no archives are kept. No chit-chat: Lengthy discussions should be moved to a suitable location elsewhere, such as the relevant article or project talk page. Please respect other editors. A real person wrote the blurb or hook for which you are suggesting a fix, or a real person noticed what they honestly believe is an issue with the blurb or hook that you wrote. Everyone is interested in creating the best Main Page possible; with the compressed time frame, there is sometimes more stress and more opportunities to step on toes. Please be civil to fellow users. Can you resolve the problem yourself? If the error lies primarily in the content of an article linked from the Main Page, consider first attempting to fix the problem there before reporting it here if necessary. Text on the Main Page generally defers to the articles with bolded links. In addition, upcoming content is typically only protected from editing 24 hours before its scheduled appearance; in most cases, you can be bold and fix any issues yourself. Administrators: Clear all reports Errors in the summary of the featured article[edit] Please do not remove this invisible timestamp. See WT:ERRORS and WP:SUBSCRIBE. - Dank (push to talk) 01:24, 29 September 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply] Today's FA[edit] Tomorrow's FA[edit] Day-after-tomorrow's FA[edit] Errors with "In the news"[edit] Errors in "Did you know ..."[edit] Current DYK[edit] Boloco: article says 4 locations remain, hook says 2. -BRAINULATOR9 (TALK) 01:20, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Article has been corrected and now matches the hook. Schwede66 02:01, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] I've reverted the change; it's the hook that's wrong. There are four locations currently open (see the official website), with two set to close before the end of the year. Sojourner in the earth (talk) 07:55, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Alright then. I went by the secondary source and that said two. Given that you can place online orders via their website, the four sites will presumably be correct. I’ll change the hook. Schwede66 08:54, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] In fact, the secondary source says that there will be two stores left by the end of 2023... apparently the Boston Common and Congress Street outlets will be closing some time soon, but haven't done so yet. So there's no discrepancy. We could amend the hook to use the secondary verified assertion of there being two by the end of the year... or just leave it as four. I'm not fussed either way. — Amakuru (talk) 13:46, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Next DYK[edit] Next-but-one DYK[edit] Errors in "On this day"[edit] Today's OTD[edit] Does it really make sense to bold Prince Phillip instead of the marriage? After all, the marriage is the event. Bremps... 16:51, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] The marriage article has an orange banner above the "Guests" section asking for more citations. In the past, this meant that the article is ineligible to be bolded/featured on OTD. Z1720 (talk) 16:57, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] My guess is that reference 31 (A Royal Wedding 1947) is the reference. The original is no longer online and the archive version shows the seating plan as a thumbnail. On the Wayback Machine, the magnifying function does not work. Hence, I can't read the content of the image but it would appear to show enough people at tables to reference the entire list. Just saying. Schwede66 23:03, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Tomorrow's OTD[edit] 1877 phonograph item "a device able to play and record sound." - word order should be record and play? JennyOz (talk) 08:07, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Fixed I agree that's a more logical word order. Schwede66 23:05, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Thanks Schwede. JennyOz (talk) 23:19, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Day-after-tomorrow's OTD[edit] Errors in the summary of the featured list[edit] Friday's FL[edit] (November 24) Monday's FL[edit] (November 20, today) Perhaps a link to Angela Merkel's article is in order? -BRAINULATOR9 (TALK) 00:37, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Done I've linked the first instance of Merkel in the prose. Schwede66 02:04, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Errors in the summary of the featured picture[edit] Notice to administrators: When fixing POTD errors, please update the corresponding regular version (i.e. without "protected" in the page title) in addition to the Main Page version linked below. Today's POTD[edit] Tomorrow's POTD[edit] suggest changing last sentence from: "Male and female northern cardinals were photographed in ..." to 'These photos of a male and female northern cardinal, which show their sexual dimorphism, were photographed in...' JennyOz (talk) 08:15, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] In Recently featured line, the most recent ie The Large Plane Trees (which appeared on Sept 4?) should be today's Bactria–Margiana Archaeological Complex seated female. JennyOz (talk) 08:15, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Done both. Thanks — Amakuru (talk) 14:48, 20 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Any other Main Page errors[edit] Please report any such problems or suggestions for improvement at the General discussion section of Talk:Main Page. v t e Main Page and featured content Main Page topics Errors Administrator instructions Main Page alternatives FAQ Editing Design Queue Yesterday Tomorrow History Wikipedia languages Sister projects Sandbox April Fools' Day Don't delete! Today's featured article Requests Pending requests Recent Oddities Most viewed Not yet used Featured articles Criteria Candidates Log Review Archive Statistics Former featured articles Unreviewed Did you know... Discussion Rules Guidelines Nominations Reviewing guide Preps & Queues Archive Stats In the news Error reports Nominations Discussion Admin guide General criteria Death criteria Recurring items Awards Sports Discussion Archives Candidate archives Current events portal Current events portal for sports Discussion How the Current events portal works How to archive the portal Selected anniversaries Discussion Holidays and observances All Today's featured list Submissions Statistics Previously run lists Get involved Featured lists Criteria Candidates Log Task force Removal candidates Review list Log Former featured lists Picture of the day Guidelines Unused Archive Tomorrow Featured pictures Criteria Candidates Nomination procedure Featured topics Featured topics on the main page Candidates Log Nomination procedure Criteria Removal candidates Good topics Former featured topics Featured topic questions v t e Wikipedia community For a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news, see the Community portal. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard. General community topics Administration News The Signpost Goings-on In the media Meetups Mailing lists Wikipedians Statistics The Wikipedia Library Centralized discussion Village pump Idea lab Policy Proposals Technical Miscellaneous WMF Holidays Bots Contents and grading Requested articles Most-wanted articles Images needing articles Articles needing images Articles for creation WP:AFC/R Creation Help Vital articles Articles for improvement Peer review Good article nominations Featured article candidates Lists Pictures Topics Article translation Pages Main Page Errors WikiProjects and collaborations Directory Culture and the arts Geographical History and society Science, technology and engineering Wikipedia assistance and tasks Patrols Recent changes Counter-Vandalism Unit Version 1.0 Editorial Team Accessibility Organizations category Awards and feedback Reward board Contests A nice cup of tea and a sit down Charitableness WikiLove Compliment before criticism Kindness Campaign Thanks! Maintenance tasks Task Center Open tasks Backl contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Main_Page/Errors responseCode 3 200 