xikqlgjeiqqksikepiredekerqeqeqaetqxqziag length 6 141779 page 10018 Indian playback singer This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous. Find sources: "Sreerama Chandra" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2021) (template removal help) This article contains wording that promotes the subject in a subjective manner without imparting real information. Please remove or replace such wording and instead of making proclamations about a subject's importance, use facts and attribution to demonstrate that importance. (September 2021) (template removal help) This article uses bare URLs, which are uninformative and vulnerable to link rot. Please consider converting them to full citations to ensure the article remains verifiable and maintains a consistent citation style. Several templates and tools are available to assist in formatting, such as reFill (documentation) and Citation bot (documentation). (August 2022) (template removal help) (template removal help) Sreerama Chandra Sreeram Chandra in 2010 Background information Birth name Sreerama Chandra Mynampati Born (1992-01-19) 19 January 1992 (age 31)[1] Addanki, Andhra Pradesh, India Genres Playback singing Occupation(s) Singer and actor Instrument(s) Vocals, guitar Years active 2008–present Website sreeramachandra.in Musical artist Sreerama Chandra Mynampati (born 19 January 1992) is an Indian playback singer and actor. He is known for winning the fifth season of the music reality show Indian Idol.[1] He started his career in 2008 as playback singer the Telugu film industry.[2][3] [4][5] In 2013, he made his Telugu cinema acting debut with the film Jagadguru Adi Shankara. He has also played the lead in Prema Geema Jantha Nai. He participated in the reality show Bigg Boss Telugu 5 in 2021 and became 2nd runner up of the show. He acted with Salman Khan for an advertisement of Suzuki.[6] Personal life[edit] Sreerama Chandra was born in Addanki, a town in the Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh, into a Telugu speaking Brahmin family.[7] His father is a High Court advocate while his mother is a housewife.[2] In spite of a non-musical background, Sreerama Chandra had a passion towards singing and started singing in his school days from N.Ch.Parthasarathy and during college days.[citation needed] He did his schooling at St. Andrews School, Bowenpally, Secunderabad and graduated (BTech) from the Royal Institute of Technology and Science (RITS). He learnt music at Sri Bhakta Ramadasu Govt. College Of Music And Dance, Secunderabad from Bhaskara Haripriya (One of the Hyderabad Sisters – The Singing Divine Duo).[8][failed verification] Career[edit] Sreerama Chandra started singing during his school days, but started playback singing at the age of 17.[9] He has completed his fifth year of his Certificate course in Carnatic vocal at Sri Bhakta Ramadasa Music College, Marredpally, Secunderabad.[citation needed] After participating in ETV's Sye, a singing reality show, Telugu film music director Mickey J Meyer spotted Sreeram's talent and had him sing "Chirugalithone Adiga" for a movie called Notebook.[2][dead link] He worked on an advertising campaign with Suzuki that featured Salman Khan.[10][non-primary source needed] He released his debut Hindi album, Rehnuma, in 2010 and said it is a tribute to his loved ones.[11] He has started recording his new music album called Crazy Love.[12] In 2021, Chandra entered the reality TV show Bigg Boss Telugu season 5 as a contestant. He has a huge following from family audience. He was the 1st finalist and 2nd runner-up of the show.[13] Competitions[edit] Finalist and 1st Runner-up of Jo Jeeta Wohi Super Star 2 in 2012 Title Winner of Indian IdolSeason 5 by Sony Entertainment Television.[8] in 2010 (19 March to 15 August 2010). Title Winner of Okkare conducted by ETV in 2008 (June–December). Reached Top 18 of Amul STAR Voice of India conducted in the year 2007 March. Finalist in Sye Singer's Challenge conducted in 2006–07, by ETV. Qualified for Delhi Finals Sangam Kala Group(Delhi), conducted in November 2006, by Hero Honda. Winner of radio competition Voice of Andhra, Was conducted in the year 2005–06 by FM radio. Runner-up in Relax songs competition conducted by Ramana Gogula in 2005. Winner of Ananda Ragam Contest conducted by the team from Anand in 2004. Runner of The Remix season-1 by Amazon prime India in 2018. 2nd Runner-up of Bigg Boss Telugu 5 in 2021.[14] Achievements and performances[edit] He started performing shows at the age of 8 and has done many stage shows including classical and filmi music. He performed shows with singers, Mano, Malathi, Sunitha. He has done shows with Limca.[15] He has performed along with Koti, M. M. Keeravani, Madhavpeddi Suresh, Vandemataram Srinivas, Ghantadi Krishna and many more music directors. He sang three songs in Sabari Gireesha Saranam an audio CD composed by Mantha Srinivas. His first performance was in Hyderabad was on 25 September 2010. He performed at the 2010 Commonwealth Games New Delhi closing ceremony along with singers like Shankar Mahadevan, Shreya Ghoshal, Sunidhi Chauhan etc. Awards[edit] Sreerama won the Lata Mangeshkar Award from Andhra Pradesh Government.[16] He was awarded the P. B. Sreenivas Award on 19 October by singer P. B. Sreenivas at Ravindra Bharathi, Hyderabad, A.P. Sreerama received the Ghantasala Award on 4 December.[when?] He won the Indian Idol 5 contest on 15 August 2010 In the non-film music category of GIMA 2011 Indian Idol 5 winner Sreerama won best music debut for Rehnuma Discography[edit] Denotes films that have not yet been released Year Song Film Language Music Director Lyricist Co-Singer(s) Note 2023 "Not Ramaiya Vastavaiya" Jawan - Tamil Dubbed Tamil Anirudh Ravichander Vivek Anirudh Ravichander, Rakshita Suresh "Not Ramaiya Vastavaiya" Jawan - Telugu Dubbed Tamil Anirudh Ravichander Chandrabose Anirudh Ravichander, Rakshita Suresh "O Rendu Prema" Baby Telugu Vijay Bulganin Anantha Sriram "O Rendu Prema"(Reprise) 2022 "Rave Rave" Crazy Fellow Telugu RR Dhruvan Alaraju Satya Yamini "Mere Dholna" (Father Version) Bhool Bhulaiyaa 2 Hindi Pritam Sameer Not included in the film's soundtrack; only heard in the film itself. "Private Party" Don Telugu Anirudh Srinivasa Moorthy Anirudh, Sahithi Chaganti "Beast Mode" Beast (D) Hindi Anirudh Raqueeb Alam Anirudh Telugu Chandrabose 2021 "Manasa Vinava" Nootokka Jillala Andagadu Telugu Shakthikanth Karthick Bhaskarabhatla "Aapki Nazron Ne Samjha" Aapki Nazron Ne Samjha Hindi Sargam Basu, Nakash Aziz TV Series "Woh Muskaana Aankhon Ka" Master Hindi Anirudh 2019 "Anaganaganaga" Oh! Baby Telugu Mickey J. Meyer Lakshmi Bhupala "Dil Hi To Hai" Reprise The Sky is Pink Hindi Pritam Antara Mitra "Fikar Not" Chhichhore Hindi Pritam Amitabh Bhattacharjee Dev Negi, Antara Mitra, Nakash Aziz, Amit Mishra, Amitabh Bhattacharya 2018 "Allah Duhai Hai" Race 3 Hindi JAM8 Shabbir Ahmed, Shole Shanky, Raja Kumari Jonita Gandhi, Amit Mishra, Raja Kumari "Manzilein" Bharta Hindi Sukumar Dutta Kunaal Vermaa Short film "Touch Chesi Chudu" Touch Chesi Chudu Telugu 2017 "Closer x Channa Mereya" Cover for FourHead Music Hindi "Let Me Love You x Enna Sona" Cover "Pee Loon x Ishq Sufiyana" T-Series Mixtape Abhijit Vaghani Zaalima (Remix) Raees JAM8 Amitabh Bhattacharya 2016 "En Oruthiye" Koditta Idangalai Nirappuga Tamil C.Sathya Kabilan "Kilukilu Payaai" R. Parthiepan "Papparamittai" Velainu Vandhutta Vellaikaaran Yugabharathi "Mari Maree" M. S. Dhoni: The Untold Story (Telugu Dub) Telugu Amaal Mallik Chaitanya Prasad Telegu counterpart of "Phir Kabhi" "Pougalaam" M. S. Dhoni: The Untold Story (Tamil Dub) Tamil Pa. Vijay Tamil counterpart of "Phir Kabhi" "Dhundicha Kshan Ha Ola" M. S. Dhoni: The Untold Story (Marathi Dub) Marathi Guru Thakur Marathi counterpart of "Phir Kabhi" "Munna Re" Munna Re - Short Film Hindi Pranshu Jha "Nee Choopu Thakagane" Swardham Telugu Kabir Rafi Kishore Babu Sambangi "Brahmotsavam" Brahmotsavam Mickey J Meyer Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry "Haal-E-Dil (Male)" Sanam Teri Kasam Hindi Himesh Reshammiya Sameer Anjaan "Aafreen" (2nd version) 1920: London JAM8 2015 "Naseeba (Reprise)" Wedding Pullav Salim–Sulaiman Irfan Siddique "Yolo" All Is Well Himesh Reshammiya "Andaniki Nirvachanam" 365 Days Telugu 2014 "Aa Roje Tolisariga" Pilla Nuvvu Leni Jeevitham Anup Rubens "Sravani for King Fisher Back Stage" "Kanupapalo " I Am In Love "Kshaminchave Cheli" Nee Jathaga Nenundali Jeet Gannguli Chandrabose Telugu remake of "Bhula Dena" from Aashiqui 2 "Ee Pichchey Premani" Palak Muchhal Telugu remake of "Hum Mar Jayenge" from Aashiqui 2 "Sirf Yaari Hai, Ya Ishqdaari Hai" Izhaar Maine Kiya Nahi Hindi Neeraj Shrivastava Samsher Singh "Beniyaaz" "Moda Thumbiruvaaga" Rangan Style Kannada "Ye Huduga" Rose Anoop Seelin "Sorry Ri Sorry" Dr. V. Nagendra Prasad 2013 "Prema Geema" Prema Geema Jantha Nahi Telugu "Papalo Aaduko" "Tappucheddam" Preminchali "Premincha" Toofan (Telugu Version) Telugu Chirrantan Bhatt Chandrabose Shalmali Kholgade Telugu counterpart of "Lamha Tera Mera" "Subhaanallah" Yeh Jawani Hai Deewani Hindi Pritam Amitabh Bhattacharya 2012 "Yem Cheddam" Seethamma Vakitlo Sirimalle Chettu Telugu Mickey J Meyer Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry "Meghallo" "Mari Antaga" "Musire Mabbula" "Naa Manasupai" Routine Love Story Ananta Sriram "Balma" Khiladi 786 Hindi Himesh Reshamiya Sameer Shreya Ghoshal "Atu Itu" Life Is Beautiful Telugu Mickey J Meyer Ananta Sriram "Life is beautiful (Pop-Rock Version)" "Vasanthame" Maa Voori Maharshi 2011 "Ammammammo Ammo" Solo Mani Sharma Krishna Chaitanya "Ishq Risk" (Remix) Mere Brother Ki Dulhan Hindi Sohail Sen Irshad Kamil "Madhubala" "Nachchavur contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Sreerama_Chandra responseCode 3 200 