xipqzemkbgsctgfosibcakuarouexqkgscoglmge length 6 309856 page 10002 Archive page of the Main Page Did you know section "WP:DYKA" redirects here. For the list of approved Did you know nominations, see WP:DYKNA. Shortcut WP:DYKA This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e Did you know... 31 March 2023 00:00, 31 March 2023 (UTC) Carrbridge Packhorse Bridge ... that Carrbridge Packhorse Bridge (pictured) is the oldest-known stone bridge in the Scottish Highlands? ... that following the killing of Richard Ward by a Colorado sheriff's deputy, the deputy received an award for the injuries that he allegedly sustained during the incident? ... that the Arleigh Burke-class destroyers are hardened against electromagnetic pulses? ... that Jan Kochanowski's Fraszki is a 16th-century collection of almost 300 poems, ranging from anecdotes and epitaphs to obscenities and erotica? ... that J.J. Wright fused Gregorian chant with jazz in his advent album O Emmanuel? ... that the site of the 1910 lynching of Allen Brooks was unmarked for 111 years? ... that out of 84 people running for governor seats in Bolivia in 2021, Mirtha Arce was one of just seven women and was the first woman from the Tarija Department to run? ... that while Egypt has the Order of the Nile, Sudan has the Order of the Two Niles, White and Blue? 30 March 2023 00:00, 30 March 2023 (UTC) Clock Tower of Haridwar ... that the Clock Tower of Haridwar (pictured) in India provides a good location from which to watch the evening prayers at Har Ki Pauri? ... that Dale Johnston was sentenced to death for murdering and dismembering his stepdaughter and her fiance in 1982, and 30 years after the murders declared innocent? ... that in 1945, Kasman Singodimedjo lobbied other Islamist leaders not to implement sharia law in Indonesia? ... that a woman who died from Alzheimer's was memorialized by her granddaughter through posthumous vocals in a song? ... that Tobi Oluwayemi and his older brother Josh are both goalkeepers who played for Tottenham's youth academy? ... that the Meriden, Waterbury and Connecticut River Railroad, created as an alternative to the New Haven Railroad, was absorbed into the New Haven after just 11 years? ... that Kong Dongmei, the granddaughter of Mao Zedong, and her husband have an estimated net worth of 5 billion yuan (US$815 million)? ... that there is ice fishing in Turkey? 29 March 2023 02:37, 29 March 2023 (UTC) May Mann Jennings ... that women including May Mann Jennings (pictured) were responsible for creating Florida's first state park? ... that naval units from around 50 countries took part in the Pakistani naval exercise AMAN-23? ... that Hugo Krabbe stirred up much controversy in the interwar period by arguing that the law, not the state, is the true sovereign? ... that a 1943 performance of Darius Milhaud's Scaramouche used anagrams to disguise the suite and its composer from Nazi censors? ... that all three of Jane Severance's books for young readers include lesbian characters, including her first book, which was the first picture book to include such characters? ... that when the Numidian king Syphax attempted to rally his fleeing army at the Battle of Cirta he was thrown from his horse and captured? ... that Andrew Sorrell, State Auditor of Alabama, initially ran for election to the Alabama House of Representatives when his father declined to run for the seat? ... that Frederic Growse's book Bulandshahr: Or, Sketches of an Indian District annoyed the British Indian government so much that they allowed only one edition? 28 March 2023 00:00, 28 March 2023 (UTC) Portrait of Rudaki, on a postage stamp ... that Rudaki (portrait pictured) is acknowledged as the founder of New Persian poetry in Iran and the father of Tajik literature in Tajikistan? ... that Sharon Cuneta and Regine Velasquez's concert Iconic has been referred to as a venture of two unrivaled names in the music scene of the Philippines? ... that despite having been enlarged for the 1939 New York World's Fair, the Willets Point Boulevard station served practically no resident population by 1949? ... that in 1982 the British civil defence exercise Hard Rock was cancelled when twenty local authorities refused to participate? ... that Ron Labinski has been described as the world's first sports-venue architect? ... that Malinau Kota, Indonesia, with 31 percent of the population of Malinau Regency, is home to more than 70 percent of its registered restaurants? ... that after publishing a fictional account of women who survived a Nazi concentration camp by sewing dresses, Lucy Adlington was contacted by descendants of actual dressmakers? ... that a same-sex kiss scene in the seventh episode of The Last of Us was censored in some regions? 27 March 2023 00:00, 27 March 2023 (UTC) Frances Cleveland ... that Frances Cleveland (pictured) was the first United States first lady to have dedicated journalists write about her activities? ... that the Stanhope Demonstrator was the first machine to solve problems in logic? ... that in 1993, Indonesia's home affairs minister Yogie Suardi Memet used thugs to disrupt the opposition Indonesian Democratic Party's national congress? ... that Colonel Mohamed Hashi Lihle's speech after freeing more than 700 prisoners from Mandera Prison first popularized the Somali National Movement in Somaliland? ... that American football fullback Harry Bolick was described as being a more effective blocker than an iron fence? ... that Bayfront MRT station in Singapore has public art that features ships powered by whales and dragons, hand-drawn by children? ... that the "updown" singer piri funded her music career by setting up an OnlyFans account? ... that An Introduction to the Three Volumes of Karl Marx's Capital was considered unusual for introducing the three volumes of Karl Marx's Capital? 26 March 2023 12:00, 26 March 2023 (UTC) Insignia of the 1st Armoured Division ... that the 1st Armoured Division of the British Army chose a white rhinoceros on a black oval as their insignia (pictured)? ... that Bertha McNeill challenged policies of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom that excluded Black women from full membership in the organization? ... that the concert series Regine at the Theater was conceived two years earlier but was delayed after singer Regine Velasquez suffered acid reflux? ... that Hodges Figgis, a bookseller in Dublin, celebrated its 250th year with the largest ever anthology of new Irish writing, with 250 contributors? ... that two American officers bribed Japanese troops with their watches to have Dutch medical officer Henri Hekking allocated to their prisoner of war camp? ... that at least 14 people were killed during the 1978 Tabriz protests in Iran, which were meant to commemorate the dead in the 1978 Qom protest? ... that the Unitized Group Ration – Express is designed to heat food itself without the need of a field kitchen? ... that on his death, medical historian Edgar Underwood was described by The Times as one of the last of a dying race, the "canny Scot"? 00:00, 26 March 2023 (UTC) Rescuers after the Bapaume town hall explosion ... that two members of the French parliament were killed when a delayed-action German bomb exploded in the town hall at Bapaume on 25 March 1917 (aftermath pictured)? ... that Hixxy and Sharkey created a schism in the UK rave music scene in 1995? ... that the earliest Nabataean Aramaic inscriptions contain Arabic names and loanwords? ... that Alexandra Hunt, a former stripper, opened an OnlyFans account in response to an Internet troll during her campaign for a seat in the United States House of Representatives? ... that in his review of A contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2023/March responseCode 3 200 