xivmnqtstsakegboxiyarqxikommwgngugdklabq page 3241 Navigating Wikipedia What is Wikipedia? A place to learn and share. Develop and explore. Basic navigation Navigation Browsing Wikipedia = scrolling, clicking on links Good starting points: To browse the encyclopedia: Wikipedia:Contents To browse the Wikipedia community: Wikipedia:Department directory To browse help resources: Help:Menu or Help:Contents/Directory Searching — type your search term into the search box (at the top right of every page) Go to the search screen — clicking on the magnifying glass will get you there too Browse the encyclopedia via the contents navbar: Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Vital articles Featured content Good articles Indices A–Z index Reference Culture Geography Health History Human activities Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Advanced navigation Advanced browsing Shortcut List of shortcuts Tabbed browsing — open multiple links at the same time Tabbed browsing in Firefox Tab Mix Plus — add-on for Firefox Tabbed browsing in Opera Advanced searching Search titles with grep Searching Wikipedia with regular expressions (regex) See also Main Page alternatives Featured content Researching with Wikipedia Viewing media Using Wikipedia on your phone Pronouncing words shown in IPA v t e Wikipedia help pages Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum. FAQs (?) Reference desks (?) Noticeboards (?) Cheatsheet (?) Directories (?) About Wikipedia (?) Administration Purpose Principles Policies and guidelines What Wikipedia is not Disclaimer (parental advice) Making requests Who writes Wikipedia? Help for readers (?) FAQ Books Copyright Glossary Mobile access Navigation Other languages Searching Students Viewing media Contributing to Wikipedia (?) Advice for young editors Avoiding common mistakes Etiquette Simplified Manual of Style Simplified rule-set "Ignore all rules" "The rules are principles" Style-tips Tip of the day Your first article (article wizard) Getting started (?) Why create an account? Introductions by topic Graphics tutorials Picture tutorial IRC (live chat) tutorial VisualEditor user guide Dos and don'ts (?) Accessibility Biographies Biographies (living) Categorization Consensus Discussions Disambiguation Images Leads Links Lists References Tables Titles (of articles) How-to pages and information pages (?) Appealing blocks Article deletion Categories Citations/references Referencing for beginners Citation Style 1 Cite errors References and page numbers Convert Diff Editing Minor edit toolbar edit conflict Find sources Files Footnotes Image deletion Infoboxes Linking (link color) Logging in Merging Page name Renaming pages Redirect Passwords Email confirmation Reverting Simple vandalism cleanup Talk pages (archiving simple archiving) User contributions WP search protocol Coding (?) Wiki markup Barcharts Calculations Characters Columns Elevation Hidden text HTML Lists Magic words Music symbols Sections Sounds Tables Templates Transclusion URL Visual files Directories (?) Abbreviations Contents (Encyclopedia proper) Departments Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Guidelines Manual of Style Policies Tasks Tips Tools Missing Manual Ask for help on your talk page (?) contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 64 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Help:Menu/Navigating_Wikipedia responseCode 3 200 