xktqxmhcfejkggumsghklswobcbacaamzakitoce length 6 109743 page 8082 19th-century Catalan revivalist movement For other uses, see Renaixença (disambiguation). Catalan / Valencian cultural domain The head of La Renaixensa shows the Phoenix bird[1] Language History Literature Literature of Andorra Grammar Pronunciation Phonetic history IPA guide Spelling-to-sound charts Orthography Alphabet Braille Morpho-syntax Nouns Personal pronouns Verbs (Conjugation) Acadèmia Valenciana de la Llengua (AVL) Institut d'Estudis Catalans (IEC) Institut and Fundació Ramon Llull (IRL & FRL) People Andorrans Aragonese Balearics Ibizans Majorcans Minorcans Catalans Roussillonese Sardinians Alguerese Valencians History History of Andorra History of Aragon History of the Balearic Islands History of Catalonia History of Roussillon History of Sardinia History of Valencia Crown of Aragon Principality of Catalonia Kingdom of Majorca Kingdom of Valencia Catalan Constitutions Valencian Law Treaty of the Pyrenees Nova Planta Decrees Geo-political divisions Andorra Aragon (La Franja) Balearic Islands Ibiza Majorca Minorca Catalonia Murcia (El Carxe) Occitania Sardinia (L'Alguer) Valencia See Catalan Countries Government and politics General Council of Andorra (Politics) Courts of Aragon (Politics) Government of the Balearic Islands (Politics) Generalitat of Catalonia (Politics) General Council of the Pyrénées-Orientales (Politics) Generalitat of Valencia (Politics) See Catalan and Valencian nationalism Traditions and symbols Cuisine Myths and legends Symbols Traditions Caganer Castells Correfoc Falles Fogueres de Sant Joan Gegants i capgrossos Moros i cristians Muixeranga Diada de Sant Jordi Sardana Tió de Nadal Coca Ensaïmada Pa amb tomàquet Paella Arts Antoni Gaudí Antoni Tàpies Joan Miró Joaquim Sorolla Salvador Dalí Literature Segle d'or Decadència Renaixença Modernisme Noucentisme Music Nova cançó Rock català Rumba catalana v t e The Renaixença ( Catalan pronunciation: [rənəˈʃɛnsə]; also written Renaixensa before spelling standardisation), or Catalan Renaissance, was a romantic revivalist movement in Catalan language and culture through the mid 19th century, akin to the Galician Rexurdimento or the Occitan Félibrige movements. The movement began in the 1830s and lasted until the 1880s, when it branched out into other cultural movements. Even though it primarily followed a romantic impulse, it incorporated stylistic and philosophical elements of other 19th century movements such as Naturalism or Symbolism. The name does not indicate a particular style, but rather the cultural circumstances in which it bloomed. Overview[edit] Along with the later modernisme, this movement ended a period of Catalan cultural decline commonly known as Decadència, that dated back at least to defeat in the War of the Spanish Succession (1701–1714)[2] and the subsequent Nueva Planta decrees, which suppressed Catalonia's traditional institutions, privileges, and fueros beginning January 16, 1716. Thus, the aim of this movement was the full restoration of Catalan as a language of culture, not only through the promotion of various forms of art, theatre and literature in this language, but also attempting to establish a normative standard for the language, something however not fully accomplished until the first quarter of the 20th century. As with most of the other Romantic movements, it was noted for its admiration of the Middle Ages, which was often reflected in art, and in Barcelona, the literary contest known as Jocs Florals or Jocs de la Gaia Ciència was revived. The Renaixença occurred not only in Catalonia proper, but also in other Catalan-speaking regions such as the Balearic Islands.[3] A journal particularly associated with the movement was the magazine La Renaixença, from which the name was taken[citation needed]- originally spelt Renaixensa before the Fabrian spelling reform. Absolutism will have the last of its episodes during the reign of Elizabeth II. Conflicts continue throughout the nineteenth century. The three Carlist wars, the events of 1835 with the first massive burning of convents and the Barcelona insurrection against Espartero in 1843 are the most tragic episodes. It was the prelude to Catalan nationalism that became visible at the end of the 19th century.[4] Notable individuals related to Renaixença[edit] Bonaventura Carles Aribau, writer. His poem Oda a la pàtria is usually acknowledged to have kick-started the movement.[citation needed] Manuel Milà i Fontanals, linguist, philologist and troubadour literature scholar, of great influence and one of the main initiators of the Renaixença.[citation needed] Joan Maragall, poet, translator from Greek and German, journalist and essayist. Jacint Verdarguer, poet, penned L'Atlàntida and the Catalan national epic, Canigó. Àngel Guimerà, playwright. Narcís Oller, novelist influenced by Émile Zola's naturalism, chronicled the Industrial Revolution, society and changing mindsets in his novels. Frederic Soler, known as Pitarra, playwright using colloquial Catalan. Joaquim Rubió i Ors, poet, known variously as Lo Gayté del Llobregat, El Gaiter del Llobregat, among others Víctor Català (real name Caterina Albert i Paradís), symbolist writer. Martí Genís i Aguilar, writer. Antoni Puig i Blanch, poet. Francesc Camprodon, poet. Víctor Balaguer, writer. Used the pseudonym Lo trovador de Montserrat. Antoni Gaudi, architect. Greatest exponent of Catalan Modernism.[citation needed] Maria Antònia Salvà i Ripoll, poet. Notes[edit] ^ Jordi Falgàs i d'altres, Barcelona and Modernity, Picasso Gaudí Miró Dalí, ISBN 0-300-12106-7, 2006. ^ Art Nouveau in Catalonia, on GaudiAllGaudi.com. Accessed 26 March 2006. ^ The Renaixença Archived 2006-04-16 at the Wayback Machine, part of Els Moviments Literaris Contemporanis a les Balears Archived 2006-04-24 at the Wayback Machine, on mnm.uib.es. Accessed 26 March 2006. ^ Catalunya : història i memòria. F. Xavier Hernàndez. Barcelona: Avui. 1995. ISBN 84-412-2482-X. OCLC 865220109.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: others (link) Further reading[edit] Joan Badia i d'altres, Llengua Catalana Cou, Ed.Teide, Barcelona, 1988, ISBN 84-307-3290-X Enciclopèdia catalana de l'estudiant Llengua i literatura catalanes núm. 5 External links[edit] Society portal Literature portal Renaixença, from the Nou diccionari 62 de la literatura catalana (2000). Page also contains extensive links to other reference-quality material. In Catalan. Renaixença, civisme i nacionalisme on the site of the Museu d'Història de Catalunya. In Catalan. La Renaixença (in Catalan) v t e National revivals during the 19th century Albanian Arab Armenian Asturian Basque Belarusian Bengali Bulgarian Catalan Celtic (incl. Irish) Croatian Czech Estonian Finnish Flemish German Vormärz Galician Greek Hungarian Icelandic Italian Jewish Latvian Lithuanian Norwegian Occitan Polish Serbian Turkish Ukrainian v t e Catalonia articles History Timeline Iberians Roman Hispania County of Barcelona Constitutions Crown of Aragon Principality of Catalonia Civil War Catholic Monarchs Habsburg Reapers' War (Republic (1641), Northern Catalonia loss) War of the Spanish Succession Nueva Planta Renaixença Commonwealth Republic (1931) Statute of Autonomy (1932) Catalan State (1934) Revolution Francoism Statute of Autonomy (1979) Statute of Autonomy (2006) Declaration of independence (2017 referendum) Geography Climate Forests Mountains Rivers Municipalities Comarques Vegueries Provinces Politics Elections Parliament Government President Political parties Police force Independence movement Economy Catalan peseta Financial crisis Property bubble Rail Roads Airports Tourism Trade unions Transport Wine Society Crime Demographics Education Health care Law People Prostitution Religion Traditions Culture Architecture Art Caganer Castell Correfoc Cuisine Gegants i capgrossos Language Literature Music Mythology Public holidays Sardana Seny Sport Football Tió de Nadal Symbols Flag Coat of arms Anthem National Day St George's Day Pi de les Tres Branques Catalan donkey Outline Category contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Renaixen%C3%A7a responseCode 3 200 