xkuevaukimcckewmxmzmokkiukdksouiikuqycbq length 6 137945 page 7340 Introduction to English language Wikipedia Shortcuts WP:ABOUT WP:WIKIPEDIA This is a general introduction for visitors to Wikipedia. For aspiring contributors, also see this guide and tutorial. For other uses, see Wikipedia:Wikipedia (disambiguation). "Imagine a world in which every single person on the planet is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge. That's what we're doing." — Jimmy Wales Wikipedia is a free online encyclopedia that anyone can edit, and millions already have. Wikipedia's purpose is to benefit readers by presenting information on all branches of knowledge. Hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, it consists of freely editable content, whose articles also have numerous links to guide readers to more information. Written collaboratively by largely anonymous volunteers, known as Wikipedians, Wikipedia articles can be edited by anyone with Internet access (and who is not presently blocked), except in limited cases where editing is restricted to prevent disruption or vandalism. Since its creation on January 15, 2001, it has grown into the world's largest reference website, attracting over a billion visitors monthly. Wikipedia currently has more than sixty-two million articles in more than 300 languages, including 6,745,622 articles in English with 121,965 active contributors in the past month. Wikipedia's fundamental principles are summarized in its five pillars. The Wikipedia community has developed many policies and guidelines, although editors do not need to be familiar with them before contributing. Anyone can edit Wikipedia's text, references, and images. What is written is more important than who writes it. The content must conform with Wikipedia's policies, including being verifiable by published sources. Editors' opinions, beliefs, personal experiences, unreviewed research, libelous material, and copyright violations will not remain. Wikipedia's software allows easy reversal of errors, and experienced editors watch and patrol bad edits. Wikipedia differs from printed references in important ways. It is continually created and updated, and encyclopedic articles on new events appear within minutes rather than months or years. Because anyone can improve Wikipedia, it has become more comprehensive than any other encyclopedia. Its contributors enhance the quality and quantity of the articles and remove misinformation, errors, and vandalism. Any reader can fix a mistake or add more information to articles (see Researching with Wikipedia). Begin by simply clicking the [edit] or [edit source] buttons or the pencil icon at the top of any non-protected page or section. Wikipedia has tested the wisdom of the crowd since 2001 and found that it succeeds. v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters: Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips v t e Wikipedia articles Overview (outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing political editing incidents Criticism Biases gender geographical ideological racial Deletion of articles deletionism and inclusionism notability "Ignore all rules" MediaWiki Plagiarism Predictions of the project's end Reliability Fact-checking Citation needed Vandalism Community (Wikipedians) Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Art+Feminism Bots Lsjbot Edit count List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikimedian of the Year Wikipedian in residence WikiProject Women in Red Events Edit-a-thon Wiki Conference India Wiki Indaba WikiConference North America Wikimania Wiki Loves Earth Folklore Monuments Pride Science People (list) Esra'a Al Shafei Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Maryana Iskander Dariusz Jemielniak Rebecca MacKinnon Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Ira Brad Matetsky Erik Möller Jason Moore Raju Narisetti Steven Pruitt Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lisa Seitz-Gruwell Rosie Stephenson-Goodknight Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales History Bomis Nupedia First edit Logo Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Hillsborough disaster Wikipedia posts VisualEditor #1Lib1Ref 2021 Wikimedia Foundation actions on the Chinese Wikipedia Controversies Essjay controversy Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Seigenthaler biography incident Star Trek Into Darkness debate United States congressional staff edits Zhemao hoaxes Coverage American politics Donald Trump COVID-19 pandemic Russian invasion of Ukraine Honors 274301 Wikipedia Wikipedia Monument References and analysis Academic studies Bibliography Cultural Films Listen to Wikipedia Wikipediocracy Mobile Apps QRpedia Wapedia Wikipedia Zero WikiReader Wikiwand Content use DBpedia Depths of Wikipedia Google and Wikipedia Health information Kiwix Science information Wikimedia Enterprise Related Death and Wikipedia The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs LGBT and Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) People imprisoned for editing Wikipedia Print Wikipedia Viola angustifolia Wiki rabbit hole Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement Wikipedia for World Heritage Wikipedia in India Wikiracing List of online encyclopedias List of wikis List Category contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:About responseCode 3 200 