xmietgkakgbkrcocckacmmnexgqiymgkwoumxgcm page 10001 Page for discussing policies and guidelines "WP:VPP" redirects here. For proposals, see Wikipedia:Village pump (proposals). Policy Technical Proposals Idea lab WMF Miscellaneous Table of contents First discussion End of page New post Shortcuts WP:VPP WP:VPPOL The policy section of the village pump is used to discuss already proposed policies and guidelines and to discuss changes to existing policies and guidelines. If you want to propose something new that is not a policy or guideline, use Village pump (proposals). If you have a question about how to apply an existing policy or guideline, try one of the many Wikipedia:Noticeboards. If you want to ask what the policy is on something, try the Help desk or the Teahouse. This is not the place to resolve disputes over how a policy should be implemented. Please see Wikipedia:Dispute resolution for how to proceed in such cases. If you want to propose a new or amended speedy deletion criterion, use Wikipedia talk:Criteria for speedy deletion. Please see this FAQ page for a list of frequently rejected or ignored proposals. Discussions are automatically archived after remaining inactive for two weeks. « Archives, 167, 168, 169, 170, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183, 184, 185, 186, 187 Centralized discussion Nominations for the Arbitration Committee elections Splitting close reviews from the Administrators' Noticeboard Requiring disclosure for admin paid advising For a listing of ongoing discussions, see the dashboard. view edit history watch archive talk purge Admins and being paid to advise on editing[edit] Please see Wikipedia:Village pump (policy)/Admins and being paid to advise on editing. This page is nearly a million bytes long, largely because of this oversized thread (55% of the page pre-split, with 779 comments from 140 accounts). Please continue the discussion over there. Also, as a general note, if you are beginning an RFC on a large or popular discussion, please start it at (or move it to) a separate page, e.g., Wikipedia:Requests for comment/your-subject-here. Thanks for your understanding. WhatamIdoing (talk) 21:09, 19 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] RfC on the "Airlines and destinations" tables in airport articles[edit] The following discussion is an archived record of a request for comment. Please do not modify it. No further edits should be made to this discussion. A summary of the conclusions reached follows. After reviewing the !votes and discussion, it is clear that there is consensus that airlines and destination tables may only be included in articles when independent, reliable, secondary sources demonstrate they meet WP:DUE. There is not a consensus for wholesale removal of such tables, but tables without independent, reliable, secondary sourcing, and where such sourcing cannot be found, should not be in the articles. This is one of the rare cases with an RFC where, numerically, the responses are close, but arguments strongly grounded in established policy make a consensus clear. Wikipedia:Closing discussions says The closer is not to be a judge of the issue, but rather of the argument. In this discussion we have many !voters responding with strong policy-based rationales, and many responding with personal opinion. Additionally reading more than just the bolded yes or no, there is a common thread found in responses supporting and opposing the tables, as well as non-bolded and other !votes. That thread is articles should include such tables when including a table would be due... all the usual guidelines relating to weight and reliable referencing (I'm thinking specifically of WP:BURDEN and WP:ONUS) should still be considered... tables are fine if they are based in secondary sources... WP:V, WP:RS and WP:NPOV can cover relevant concerns... If it is unmaintained / not well sourced - it should be either repaired or deleted just like every other wikipedia article. This common thread, as well as the strength of arguments leads me to read consensus against the plurality of bolded !votes. Addressing the arguments, the strongest and by far most common argument put forth by those opposed to the tables is WP:NOTALLSORTSOFSTUFF. WP:NOT is policy, and the strength of the arguments citing it are recognized by those supporting inclusion of the tables. There were also no strong arguments against the interpretation of WP:NOT, other than disagreement that it should apply. Merely stating that something is encyclopedic without elaborating how it does not fall foul of existing policy is not a strong counter-argument. A counter-argument saying that WP:V is a counter to WP:NOT, for instance, is weakened by the text of both policies, with WP:V linking specifically to WP:NOT and saying While information must be verifiable for inclusion in an article, not all verifiable information must be included. Another argument for excluding the tables was the editorial overhead of maintaining them, but this was significantly less widely cited and lacks the solid policy basis of WP:NOT arguments. Many of those supporting provided weak arguments, with several essentially rooted in WP:ILIKEIT. Merely asserting that the information is useful or helpful doesn't demonstrate that it is encyclopedic. There were also several with reasoning that did not address and were strongly rebutted by the policy based arguments of those opposed to inclusion. There were also arguments that the tables provide an idea of how well served or active an airport is, but those arguments were weakened by pointing out that the context could be provided in prose. ScottishFinnishRadish (talk) 20:14, 18 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Should airport articles include tables that display all the airlines that serve the airport and the cities they fly to? Sunnya343 (talk) 16:05, 30 September 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] I wanted to clarify that the central question is whether airport articles should mention every single flight that the airport offers (no matter the way that the information is presented). I said "tables" specifically because that's the format currently used by all of the articles. Sunnya343 (talk) 23:39, 30 September 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Virtually all airport articles contain tables showing all the cities that passenger airlines fly to. Some articles also have tables for cargo destinations. Here are a few examples: Tehran-Mehrabad, London-Heathrow, New York, Jakarta. In 2017, we had two RfCs at WikiProject Airports on this topic: one that determined we should keep the tables, and one on how to reference them. However, I am concerned the results of those RfCs may be cases of WP:CONLEVEL. I think it would be useful to hear more opinions from the wider Wikipedia community. Sunnya343 (talk) 16:07, 30 September 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Notices placed at WikiProject Airports, WikiProject Aviation, and the talk pages of editors who participated in the two RfCs above and the following discussions on lists of airline destinations: 2018 RfC and 2023 AfD. No. An article should certainly discuss an airport's current operations, but the listing of every single flight that is running as of today's date is inappropriate for this encyclopedia. Airlines frequently make changes to their schedules, and Wikipedia is not meant to be a news service that documents all of these changes. I also consider the lists indiscriminate; in the overall history of an airport, there is no reason why today's particular list of destinations is more noteworthy than the one from last month or two months ago. Few to no independent sources exist for most of the routes, demonstrating that they are not significant enough to merit inclusion in an article. The references that do exist generally are just covering the recent inauguration or upcoming termination of the flight - one of those frequent changes to airline schedules. Sunnya343 (talk) 15:00, 7 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] (I wanted to present a more clear argument above based on policies. The following is my original comment, where I describe the impractical nature of attempting to maintain and reference up-to-date lists of destinations.) I'd say there are three general categories of sources for the tables: Secondary Independent sources - Only exist for a small fraction of routes. Booking engines or flight schedules on airline websites - These require you to input the origin, destination, and a random date to see if the airline flies between the two cities. For routes listed as seasonal, I suppose you'd have to search for flights on random dates in different months. Flight-tracking websites - FlightRadar24 will show you a map of routes from an airport (example). You have to click on each destination to see which airlines fly to it. I have not encountered another type of Wikipedia article that includes sources like #2 and #3 above - databases that you have to navigate to verify each destination. I don't know if they are considered acceptable references. When an airline announces a new destination, editors will add it to the list with a reference. However, once the new flight begins, that reference is often removed (probably to avoid citation clutter). Still, what this means is that timetable references in the right-most column (see the New York-JFK article) are taking precedence over what may have been secondary third-party sources supporting individual destinations. I've also noticed that the timetable sources usually have access-dates going back several years, even though editors continue to update the lists. So there is a discrepancy. Maybe I'm nitpicking, but theoretically, every time you make a change to the list, you should go through the timetable and verify every other destination, and then change the access-date... Ultimately, I believe the fact that there are no secondary independent sources for most of these destinations demonstrates that listing all of them isn't encyclopedic. Primary Non-independent sources are certainly allowed, but I don't think it's  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 65 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Village_pump_(policy) responseCode 3 200 