xmroektonexaugqeoifkcokopmbirsbokcsmkoma page 10020 ↓↓Skip to nominations Here the community can nominate articles to be selected as "Today's featured article" (TFA) on the main page. The TFA section aims to highlight the range of articles that have "featured article" status, from Art and architecture through to Warfare, and wherever possible it tries to avoid similar topics appearing too close together without good reason. Requests are not the only factor in scheduling the TFA (see Choosing Today's Featured Article); the final decision rests with the TFA coordinators: Wehwalt, Dank and Gog the Mild, who also select TFAs for dates where no suggestions are put forward. Please confine requests to this page, and remember that community endorsement on this page does not necessarily mean the article will appear on the requested date. The article must be a featured article. Editors who are not significant contributors to the article should consult regular editors of the article before nominating it for TFAR. The article must not have appeared as TFA before (see the list of possibilities here), except that: The TFA coordinators may choose to fill up to two slots each week with FAs that have previously been on the main page, so long as the prior appearance was at least five years ago. The coordinators will invite discussion on general selection criteria for re-runnable TFAs, and aim to make individual selections within those criteria. The request must be either for a specific date within the next 30 days that has not yet been scheduled, or a non-specific date. The template {{@TFA}} can be used in a message to "ping" the coordinators through the notification system. If you have an exceptional request that deviates from these instructions (for example, an article making a second appearance as TFA, or a "double-header"), please discuss the matter with the TFA coordinators beforehand. It can be helpful to add the article to the pending requests template, if the desired date for the article is beyond the 30-day period. This does not guarantee selection, but does help others see what nominations may be forthcoming. Requesters should still nominate the article here during the 30-day time-frame. Purge the cache to refresh this page – Check TFAR nominations for dead links – Alt text Shortcuts WP:TFA/R WP:TFAR v t e Featured content: Featured articles ← Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Featured article candidates (FAC) Featured article criteria Featured article log Featured article statistics Featured article review (FAR) Former featured articles Unreviewed featured articles/2020 Today's featured article (TFA): This month's queue About Today's featured article Recent TFAs and statistics Current TFA requests Potential TFA requests TFA oddities Most viewed TFAs Featured articles yet to appear as TFA Script to track TFA recent changes Featured article tools: Mentoring for FAC Nominators of featured articles promoted Recent changes to featured articles Random featured article How to post a new nomination: I. Create the nomination subpage. In the box below, enter the full name of the article you are nominating (without using any brackets around the article's name) and click the button to create your nomination page. II. Write the nomination. On that nomination page, fill out as many of the relevant parts of the pre-loaded {{TFAR nom}} template as you can, then save the page. Your nomination should mention: when the last similar article was, since this helps towards diversity on the main page (browsing Wikipedia:Today's featured article/recent TFAs will help you find out); when the article was promoted to FA status (since older articles may need extra checks); and (for date-specific nominations) the article's relevance for the requested date. III. Write the blurb. For Featured Articles promoted on or after January 1, 2016, copy in the blurb that appears on the talk page of the FAC nomination (that's the page linked from "it has been identified" at the top of the article's talk page), save it, and then edit as needed. For older FAs, you're welcome to create your own TFA text as a summary of the lead section, or you can ask for assistance at WT:TFAR. We use one paragraph only, with no reference tags or alternative names; the only thing bolded is the first link to the article title. The length when previewed is between 925 and 1025 characters including spaces, " (Full article...)" and the featured topic link if applicable. More characters may be used when no free-use image can be found. Fair use images are not allowed. IV. Post at TFAR. After you have created the nomination page, add it here under a level-3 heading for the preferred date (or under a free non-specific date header). To do this, add (replacing "ARTICLE TITLE" with the name of your nominated article): ===February 29=== {{Wikipedia:Today's featured article/requests/ARTICLE TITLE}} Nominations are ordered by requested date below the summary chart. More than one article can be nominated for the same date. It would also then be helpful to add the nomination to the summary chart, following the examples there. Please include the name of the article that you are nominating in your edit summary. If you are not one of the article's primary editors, please then notify the primary editors of the TFA nomination; if primary editors are no longer active, please add a message to the article talk page. Scheduling: In the absence of exceptional circumstances, TFAs are scheduled in date order, not according to how long nominations have been open or how many supportive comments they have. So, for example, January 31 will not be scheduled until January 30 has been scheduled (by TFAR nomination or otherwise). Summary chart[edit] Currently accepting requests from January 1 to January 31. Date Article Notes Supports† Opposes† Nonspecific 1 Polar bear 1 Nonspecific 2 Carucage TFA rerun, 830th anniversary of first use 1 Nonspecific 3 Fleetwood Park Racetrack Nonspecific 4 Communication Nonspecific 5 Shostakovich v. Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corp. Nonspecific 6 Nonspecific 7 January 2 The Masked Singer (American TV series) 5th anniversary 1 0 January 4 Robert Nimmo anniversary of his death in 1966 2 0 January 5 Open Arms (SZA song) first anniversary of solo version's release 1 0 January 6 Badnjak (Serbian) Christmas Eve, Julian calendar. TFA re-run 1 0 January 21 Never Forget You (Mariah Carey song) 30th anniversary of release 1 0 January 25 W. Somerset Maugham 150th birthday 1 0 † Tally may not be up to date. The nominator is included in the number of supporters. Nonspecific date nominations[edit] Nonspecific date 1[edit] Polar bear[edit] The polar bear is a large bear native to the Arctic and nearby areas. Closely related to the brown bear, the polar bear is the largest extant species of bear and land carnivore, with adult males weighing 350kg–800kg (770–1,760 lb). It is white- or yellowish-furred with black skin and a thick layer of fat. Polar bears are both terrestrial and sea ice-living. They mainly prey on seals, especially ringed seals, and usually live solitarily. Male bears guard females in during the breeding season and defend them from rivals. Mothers give birth to cubs in maternity dens during the winter. The International Union for Conservation of Nature considers polar bears a vulnerable species. Their biggest threat is climate change as global warming has led to a decline in sea ice in the Arctic. They have been hunted for their coats, meat and other items. They have been kept in captivity and have played important roles in culture.(Full article...) Most recent similar article(s): South Asian river dolphin on 24 October (aquatic mammal) or Elephant on 12 August (giant mammal) Main editors: LittleJerry Promoted: 21 September 2023 Reasons for nomination: It should be sometime in the winter of the northern hemisphere because it's a polar bear... Listed as a Level 4 vital article. Translated in over 130 languages. This is my first nomination for a featured article to appear in TFA. Support as nominator. phrogge 'sup? edits 20:22, 29 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Coordinator comment LittleJerry seems to like to set their FAs for the day on which the species is recognized. I note that International Polar Bear Day is February 27.--Wehwalt (talk) 20:34, 29 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Yes. I listed this for that date here. LittleJerry (talk) 23:38, 29 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Phrogge: Would it be possible to replace the link to the dab page (seal) with Pinniped (the link in the article)? Thanks! Timothytyy (talk) 12:16, 30 October 2023 (UTC) Sorry for disturbing, I think I'll change it myself since I don't think it is controversial. Timothytyy (talk) 12:18, 30 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Support. Gog the Mild (talk) 15:53, 12 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Nonspecific date 2[edit] Carucage[edit] Carucage was a medieval English land tax based on the size of the taxpayer's estate. It was levied six times: by Richard I in 1194 and 1198, John in 1200, and Henry III in 1217, 1220, and 1224. The taxable value of an estate was initially assessed from the Domesday Survey, but other methods were later employed, such as valuations based on the sworn testimony of neighbours or the number of plough-teams the taxpayer used (pictured). Carucage never raised as much as other taxes, but it helped fund the ransom for Richard's release in 1194, the tax John paid Philip II of France on land he inherited in that country, and financing Henry III's military campaigns in England and continental Europe. The tax was an attempt to secure new sources of revenue when new demands were being made on royal finances. Although derived from the older danegeld, carucage was an experiment in revenue collection and only levied for specific purposes. (Full article...) Most recent similar article(s): Maybe Medieval cuisine on Oct 1? Taxation is not a popular FA topic Main editors: Ealdgyth Promoted: January 30, 2010 Reasons for nomination: 830 years  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 79 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Today%27s_featured_article/requests responseCode 3 200 