xoceyefchmocraiqwatgrqbeiergnkiqfgmmnakg length 6 200634 page 10008 Guideline page about non-free content "WP:FU", "WP:FUI", "WP:NOTFREE", and "WP:FUP" redirect here. For WikiProject Fair use, see WP:WPFU. For Motto of the day's frequently used idea area, see WP:MOTD/FUI. For Wikipedia is not free speech, see WP:NOTFREESPEECH. For file use policy, see WP:IUP. This page documents an English Wikipedia content guideline. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page. Shortcuts WP:F WP:NFC WP:NFCP WP:NONFREE WP:FAIRUSE This page contains one or more sections that are English Wikipedia policies. These sections are each individually marked with {{policy section}}. Sections of this page that are not marked as such are not considered policies. This page in a nutshell: Non-free content can be used in articles only if: Its usage would be considered fair use in United States copyright law and also complies with the Non-free content criteria; It is used for a purpose that cannot be fulfilled by free material (text or images, existing or to be created); and It has a valid rationale indicating why its usage would be considered fair use within Wikipedia policy and U.S. law. Wikipedia copyright Policy Copyright policy Copyright violation policy Reusing Wikipedia content License text ( CC BY-SA 4.0 GFDL) Guidelines Public domain content Non-free content Non-US copyrights Copying within Wikipedia Copyright information index Advice Frequently asked questions Donating copyrighted material Copying text from other sources Close paraphrasing Requesting copyright permission Guidance for text copyright problems Processes Copyright problems Files for discussion Contributor copyright investigations Resources General help Copyright assistance Media copyright questions File copyright tags Declaration of consent v t e Wikipedia's goal is to be a free content encyclopedia, with free content defined as content that does not bear copyright restrictions on the right to redistribute, study, modify and improve, or otherwise use works for any purpose in any medium, even commercially. Any content not satisfying these criteria is said to be non-free. This includes all content (including images) that is fully copyrighted, or which is made available subject to restrictions such as "non-commercial use only" or "for use on Wikipedia only". (Many images that are generally available free of charge may thus still be "non-free" for Wikipedia's purposes.) The Wikimedia Foundation uses the definition of "free" described here. The licensing policy of the Wikimedia Foundation expects all content hosted on Wikimedia projects to be free content; however, there are exceptions. The policy allows projects (with the exception of Wikimedia Commons) to adopt an exemption doctrine policy allowing the use of non-free content. Their use should be minimal and confined (with limited exceptions) to illustrating historically significant events, to include identifying protected works such as logos, or to complement (within narrow limits) articles about copyrighted contemporary works. Non-free content should not be used when a freely licensed file that serves the same purpose can reasonably be expected to be uploaded, as is the case for almost all portraits of living people. Non-free content should be replaced by free content should such emerge. The non-free content criteria policy currently serves as the exemption doctrine policy of the English Wikipedia, while this document serves to provide guidance associated with this policy. Non-free content can be used on Wikipedia in certain cases (for example, in some situations where acquiring a freely licensed image for a particular subject is not possible), but only within the United States legal doctrine of fair use, and in accordance with Wikipedia's own non-free content criteria as set out below. The use of non-free content on Wikipedia is therefore subject to purposely stricter standards than those laid down in U.S. copyright law. Policy This section documents an English Wikipedia policy, a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus. Transcluded from Wikipedia:Non-free content criteria; this is the part of the current page that is official policy As per the Wikimedia Foundation Licensing policy resolution of March 23, 2007, this document serves as the Exemption Doctrine Policy for the English Wikipedia.[1] Rationale To support Wikipedia's mission to produce perpetually free content for unlimited distribution, modification and application by all users in all media To minimize legal exposure by limiting the amount of non-free content, using more narrowly defined criteria than apply under the fair use provisions in United States copyright law To facilitate the judicious use of non-free content to support the development of a high-quality encyclopedia Policy Shortcut WP:NFCCP There is no automatic entitlement to use non-free content in an article or elsewhere on Wikipedia. Articles and other Wikipedia pages may, in accordance with the guideline, use brief verbatim textual excerpts from copyrighted media, properly attributed or cited to its original source or author (as described by the citation guideline), and specifically indicated as direct quotations via quotation marks, <blockquote>, {{Quote}}, or a similar method. Other non-free content—including all copyrighted images, audio and video clips, and other media files that lack a free content license—may be used on the English Wikipedia only where all 10 of the following criteria are met. No free equivalent. Non-free content is used only where no free equivalent is available, or could be created, that would serve the same encyclopedic purpose. Respect for commercial opportunities. Non-free content is not used in a manner that is likely to replace the original market role of the original copyrighted material. Minimal usage: Minimal number of items. Multiple items of non-free content are not used if one item can convey equivalent significant information. Minimal extent of use. An entire work is not used if a portion will suffice. Low-resolution, rather than high-resolution/fidelity/bit rate is used (especially where the original could be used for deliberate copyright infringement). This rule also applies to the copy in the File: namespace. Previous publication. Non-free content must be a work which has been published or publicly displayed outside Wikipedia by (or with permission from) the copyright holder, or a derivative of such a work created by a Wikipedia editor. Content. Non-free content meets general Wikipedia content standards and is encyclopedic. Media-specific policy. Non-free content meets Wikipedia's media-specific policy. For example, images must meet Wikipedia:Image use policy. One-article minimum. Non-free content is used in at least one article. Contextual significance. Non-free content is used only if its presence would significantly increase readers' understanding of the article topic, and its omission would be detrimental to that understanding. Restrictions on location. Non-free content is allowed only in articles (not disambiguation pages), and only in the article namespace, subject to exemptions. (To prevent an image category from displaying thumbnails, add __NOGALLERY__ to it; images are linked, not inlined, from talk pages when they are a topic of discussion.) Image description page. The image or media description page contains the following: Identification of the source of the original copyrighted material, supplemented, where possible, with information about the artist, publisher and copyright holder, and year of copyright; this is to help determine the material's potential market value. See: Wikipedia:Citing sources § Multimedia. A copyright tag that indicates which Wikipedia policy provision is claimed to permit the use. For a list of image copyright tags, see Wikipedia:Image copyright tags/Non-free content. The name of each article (a link to each article is also recommended) in which fair use is claimed for the item, and a separate, specific non-free use rationale for each use of the item, as explained at Wikipedia:Non-free use rationale guideline.[2] The rationale is presented in clear, plain language and is relevant to each use. Enforcement Shortcut WP:NFCCE A file with a valid non-free-use rationale for some (but not all) articles it is used in will not be deleted. Instead, the file should be removed from the articles for which it lacks a non-free-use rationale, or a suitable rationale added. A file on which non-free use is claimed that is not used in any article (criterion 7) may be deleted seven days after notification. A file in use in an article and uploaded after 13 July 2006 that does not comply with this policy 48 hours after notification to the uploading editor will be deleted. To avoid deletion, the uploading editor or another Wikipedian will need to provide a convincing non-free-use defense that satisfies all 10 criteria. For a file in use in an article that was uploaded before 13 July 2006, the 48-hour period is extended to seven days. Note that it is the duty of users seeking to include or retain content to provide a valid rationale; those seeking to remove or delete it are not required to show that one cannot be created—see burden of proof. Deletion criteria for non-free content are specified in Wikipedia:Criteria for speedy deletion § Files. Footnotes ^ At the time of the Resolution's issuance on March 23, 2007, the page WP:Non-free content served as the exemption doctrine policy and is referenced by the Resolution. Since then, the content has been moved around, specifically discussed the following May, and now WP:Non-free content criteria serves as the exemption doctrine policy, while WP:Non-free content serves as guidance for this. ^ A redirect pointing to the page contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 60 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Non-free_content responseCode 3 200 