xqosdayqtmgejerozgtgfenqdcjqukpcucjskosm length 6 273850 page 10008 Did you know? Introduction and rules Introduction WP:DYK General discussion WT:DYK Guidelines WP:DYKCRIT Reviewer instructions WP:DYKRI Nominations Nominate an article WP:DYKCNN Awaiting approval WP:DYKN Approved WP:DYKNA April 1 hooks WP:DYKAPRIL Preparation Preps and queues T:DYK/Q Prepper instructions WP:DYKPBI Admin instructions WP:DYKAI Main Page errors WP:ERRORS History Statistics WP:DYKSTATS Archived sets WP:DYKA Just for fun Monthly wraps WP:DYKW Awards WP:DYKAWARDS Userboxes WP:DYKUBX Hall of Fame WP:DYK/HoF List of users ... ... by nominations WP:DYKNC ... by promotions WP:DYKPC Administrative Scripts and bots WP:DYKSB On the Main Page T:DYK To ping the DYK admins {{DYK admins}} v t e This is a record of material that was recently featured on the Main Page as part of Did you know (DYK). Recently created new articles, greatly expanded former stub articles and recently promoted good articles are eligible; you can submit them for consideration. Archives are generally grouped by month of Main Page appearance. (Currently, DYK hooks are archived according to the date and time that they were taken off the Main Page.) To find which archive contains the fact that appeared on Did you know, go to article's talk page and follow the archive link in the DYK talk page message box. Current archive 2023 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov 2022 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2021 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2020 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2015 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2007 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2005 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2004 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Edit the DYK archive navigation template Edit the DYK archive navigation template Did you know... 30 April 2020 12:00, 30 April 2020 (UTC) Bicoloured sedge ... that the bicoloured sedge (pictured) was part of an attempted botanical fraud? ... that Mary Catherine Phillips, author of Skin Deep. The Truth About Beauty Aids – Safe and Harmful, was a member of the board of directors of Consumers' Research in Bowerstown, New Jersey? ... that tropical cyclones leave deposits in lakes that can be used to reconstruct past cyclonic activity? ... that the Kanye West song "Up from the Ashes" invokes both the rise of the mythological phoenix and the resurrection of Jesus? ... that Slovak dissident Ján Mlynárik was hunted down by the Communist authorities for criticizing the expulsion of Germans from Czechoslovakia? ... that Camp Jened, a summer camp for disabled people, was heavily influenced by the 1960s counterculture and hippie values? ... that after the Battle of Adys, the peace terms offered to the defeated Carthaginians were so harsh that they decided to fight on? ... that Ruby Mazur, who designed the cover for the Rolling Stones' "Tumbling Dice", once sold a painting to a Saudi Arabian prince before the paint had even dried? 00:00, 30 April 2020 (UTC) The McLain Family Band ... that a young Ruth McLain Smith, member of The McLain Family Band (pictured), had been playing the Appalachian dulcimer for only two weeks when she performed at the White House on national television? ... that the pasquinade, a form of satire usually in verse or prose, is named after Pasquino, a Hellenistic statue in Rome on which anonymous postings were made? ... that Callaghan MacCarty left his life as a Catholic monk in France and converted to Protestantism to become the third Earl of Clancarty? ... that "Storm Area 51" was a comedic Facebook event intended as a raid on Area 51 in search of aliens? ... that England international footballer Colin Grainger was also a professional singer and shared a bill with the Beatles? ... that a number of Confederate soldiers at the Battle of Cane Hill were armed only with shotguns? ... that Charles Villiers Stanford's Violin Sonata No. 1 was first performed in Cambridge, by violinist Ludwig Straus and the composer at the piano? ... that California governor Pete Wilson celebrated his 60th birthday as a DJ on Sacramento radio station KSEG? 29 April 2020 12:00, 29 April 2020 (UTC) Churchill tank ... that Henry Merritt's triple-differential transmission allowed the Churchill tank (pictured) to rotate on the spot? ... that the Yokohama Northwest Route features a 4.1-kilometer-long (2.5 mi) tunnel equipped with emergency escape slides? ... that French weightlifter Alexandre Maspoli, who won a medal at the 1906 Intercalated Games, later competed in the sculpture event at the 1924 Summer Olympics? ... that GirlsDoPorn was one of the top 20 most viewed channels on Pornhub before its co-owners and a male pornographic actor were charged with sex trafficking by force, fraud, and coercion? ... that the first batch of cadets from the Indian Military Academy included the future army chiefs of Pakistan, Burma, and India? ... that Luis Miguel's duet with Frank Sinatra, "Come Fly with Me", is the only English-language song that he has released to date? ... that the potter of Potters Crouch may have been Le Pottere, whose son was also a Pottere? ... that at the age of seventeen, Tiger King subject Carole Baskin used llamas for a lawn-trimming business? 00:00, 29 April 2020 (UTC) Madeleine Albright at the Albright Institute ... that the formation of Wellesley College's Albright Institute was announced by former U.S. secretary of state Madeleine Albright (pictured) at her class's 50-year reunion? ... that a series of eruptions of Mount Takahe 17,700 years ago may have resulted in an ozone hole? ... that Dorothy Horrell, Chancellor of the University of Colorado Denver, credits her experience in a 4-H farm youth exchange program in Taiwan for developing her ideas on leadership and community? ... that photographs of the Holocaust, including many taken by German photographers, have been used as evidence during trials of Nazi war crimes? ... that Bible translations into Geʽez date back to at least the 6th century, making them among the oldest in the world? ... that part of the spire of Zagreb Cathedral broke off during a 2020 earthquake? ... that rear admiral Valery Varfolomeyev was named a Hero of the Russian Federation in 2017, while his 11th Submarine Division was recognised as the best submarine formation in the Northern Fleet? ... that Cocklakes is considered one of the rudest place names in the United Kingdom? 28 April 2020 12:00, 28 April 2020 (UTC) Krzysztof Penderecki ... that a recording of Credo, composed by Krzysztof Penderecki (pictured) for five soloists, choirs and orchestra for the 1998 Oregon Bach Festival, won a Grammy Award for Best Choral Performance? ... that Willa Brown's efforts to train African-American pilots in the United States led to the creation of the Tuskegee Airmen? ... that by the end of the Addled Parliament, which James I had hoped would be a "Parliament of Love", the king feared that he was in danger of assassination? ... that Mariko Tamaki wrote Laura Dean Keeps Breaking Up with Me in part because she had "always liked the idea of an ex-ex-girlfriend story"? ... that Buchenwald prisoner Dr. Marian Ciepielowski produced fake typhus vaccine for Nazi soldiers, while saving the real vaccine for his fellow prisoners? ... that Essex Market was built as part of New York City mayor Fiorello La Guardia's "war on pushcarts"? ... that Ant Clemons wrote a song a day in exchange for rent while sleeping on his friends' floor? ... that the banthas in Star Wars were portrayed by an elephant who kept shrugging the costume off her body during filming due to the intense heat? 00:00, 28 April 2020 (UTC) Globe chamomile blooms ... that the globe chamomile (pictured), a member of the daisy family native to South Africa, infests parts of Arizona and California? ... that after winning a place in the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue, Mia Kang became suicidal from a modeling-related eating disorder and credits the combat sport Muay Thai for saving her life? ... that the Lebanon national football team played their first official match in Tel Aviv 80 years ago today? ... that bronze fangyi vessels are thought to have been used for food or wine offerings to ancestors in Bronze Age China? ... that during the Mercenary War, Carthaginian rebels killed 700 prisoners by cutting off their hands, castrating them, breaking their legs, and throwing them into a pit to be buried alive? ... that Naomi Munakata, who began singing in a choir at the age of seven, served as the choral conductor of the Orquestra Sinfônica do Estado de São Paulo from 1995 to 2013? ... that the Federal Communications Commission found that the owner of Maine radio station WKZX had "abdicated financial control" of the business? ... that amateur entomologist James John Joicey had a collection of 1.5 million butterflies? 27 April 2020 12:00, 27 April 2020 (UTC) Jakob Nacken captured at Calais, France, in 1944 ... that at 7 ft 3 in (2.21 m), Jakob Nacken (pictured) was the tallest German soldier in World War II, and later found work in the United States as the world's tallest Santa Claus? ... that Kirk Deighton, a Site of Special Scientific Interest in North Yorkshire, has one of the largest known breeding populations of great crested newt in the United Kingdom? ... that French philosopher Lucien Sève wrote a four-volume work focusing on contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 71 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Recent_additions/2020/April responseCode 3 200 