xqzapadalcucvghkbgcmqsegicpststqlixgaium length 6 268180 page 10087 Stage of development of English, starting c. 16th century This article is about the stage of the language. For the historical period, see Early Modern Britain. Early Modern English Shakespeare's English, King James English English William Shakespeare's Sonnet 132 in the 1609 Quarto Region England, Southern Scotland, Ireland, Wales and British colonies Era developed into Modern English in the late 17th century Language family Indo-European Germanic West Germanic North Sea Germanic Anglo-Frisian Anglic Early Modern English Early forms Proto-Indo-European Proto-Germanic Old English Middle English Language codes ISO 639-3 – ISO 639-6 emen Glottolog None IETF en-emodeng This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA. Early Modern English (sometimes abbreviated EModE,[1] or EMnE) or Early New English (ENE) is the stage of the English language from the beginning of the Tudor period to the English Interregnum and Restoration, or from the transition from Middle English, in the late 15th century, to the transition to Modern English, in the mid-to-late 17th century.[2] Before and after the accession of James I to the English throne in 1603, the emerging English standard began to influence the spoken and written Middle Scots of Scotland. The grammatical and orthographical conventions of literary English in the late 16th century and the 17th century are still very influential on modern Standard English. Most modern readers of English can understand texts written in the late phase of Early Modern English, such as the King James Bible and the works of William Shakespeare, and they have greatly influenced Modern English. Texts from the earlier phase of Early Modern English, such as the late-15th-century Le Morte d'Arthur (1485) and the mid-16th-century Gorboduc (1561), may present more difficulties but are still closer to Modern English grammar, lexicon and phonology than are 14th-century Middle English texts, such as the works of Geoffrey Chaucer. History[edit] English Renaissance[edit] See also: English Renaissance Transition from Middle English[edit] Further information: Late Middle English The change from Middle English to Early Modern English was not just a matter[1] of changes of vocabulary or pronunciation; a new era in the history of English was beginning. An era of linguistic change in a language with large variations in dialect was replaced by a new era of a more standardised language, with a richer lexicon and an established (and lasting) literature. 1476 – William Caxton started printing in Westminster; however, the language that he used reflected the variety of styles and dialects used by the authors who originally wrote the material. Tudor period (1485–1603)[edit] 1485 – Caxton published Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur, the first print bestseller in English. Malory's language, while archaic in some respects, was clearly Early Modern and was possibly a Yorkshire or Midlands dialect. 1491 or 1492 – Richard Pynson started printing in London; his style tended to prefer Chancery Standard, the form of English used by the government. Henry VIII[edit] c. 1509 – Pynson became the king's official printer. From 1525 – Publication of William Tyndale's Bible translation, which was initially banned. 1539 – Publication of the Great Bible, the first officially authorised Bible in English. Edited by Myles Coverdale, it was largely from the work of Tyndale. It was read to congregations regularly in churches, which familiarised much of the population of England with a standard form of the language. 1549 – Publication of the first edition of the Book of Common Prayer in English, under the supervision of Thomas Cranmer (revised in 1552, 1559, 1604, and 1662), which standardised much of the wording of church services. Some have argued that since attendance at prayer book services was required by law for many years, the repetitive use of its language helped to standardise Modern English even more than the King James Bible (1611) did.[3] 1557 – Publication of Tottel's Miscellany. Elizabethan English[edit] Title page of Gorboduc (printed 1565). The Tragedie of Gorbodvc, whereof three Actes were wrytten by Thomas Nortone, and the two laste by Thomas Sackuyle. Sett forthe as the same was shewed before the Qvenes most excellent Maiestie, in her highnes Court of Whitehall, the .xviii. day of January, Anno Domini .1561. By the Gentlemen of Thynner Temple in London. Elizabethan era (1558–1603) 1560 – The Geneva Bible was published. The New Testament was completed in 1557 by English Reformed exiles on the continent during the reign of Mary, and the complete Bible three years later, after Elizabeth succeeded the throne. This version was favoured by the Puritans and Pilgrims due to its more vigorous and forceful language. Its popularity and proliferation (due in large part to its copious notes) over the following decades sparked the production of the King James Bible to counter it. 1582 – The Rheims and Douai Bible was completed, and the New Testament was released in Rheims, France, in 1582. It was the first complete English translation of the Bible that was officially sponsored and carried out by the Catholic Church (earlier translations into English, especially of the Psalms and Gospels existed as far back as the 9th century, but it was the first Catholic English translation of the full Bible). Though the Old Testament was already complete, it was not published until 1609–1610, when it was released in two volumes. While it did not make a large impact on the English language at large, it certainly played a role in the development of English, especially in heavily Catholic English-speaking areas. Christopher Marlowe, fl. 1586–1593 1592 – The Spanish Tragedy by Thomas Kyd c. 1590 – c. 1612 – Shakespeare's plays written See also: Chronology of Shakespeare's plays and Shakespeare's influence Further information: Elizabethan literature and English Renaissance theatre 17th century[edit] Jacobean and Caroline eras[edit] Jacobean era (1603–1625)[edit] Further information: Jacobean era 1609 – Shakespeare's sonnets published Other playwrights: Ben Jonson Thomas Dekker Beaumont and Fletcher (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher) John Webster 1607 – The first successful permanent English colony in the New World, Jamestown, is established in Virginia. Early vocabulary specific to American English comes from indigenous languages (such as moose, racoon). 1611 – The King James Version was published, largely based on Tyndale's translation. It remained the standard Bible in the Church of England into the latter half of the twentieth century. 1623 – Shakespeare's First Folio published Caroline era and English Civil War (1625–1649)[edit] Further information: Caroline era and English Civil War 1630–1651 – William Bradford, Governor of Plymouth Colony, wrote his journal. It will become Of Plymouth Plantation, one of the earliest texts written in the American Colonies. 1647 – Publication of the first Beaumont and Fletcher folio Interregnum and Restoration[edit] The English Civil War and the Interregnum were times of social and political upheaval and instability. The dates for Restoration literature are a matter of convention and differ markedly from genre to genre. In drama, the "Restoration" may last until 1700, but in poetry, it may last only until 1666, the annus mirabilis (year of wonders), and in prose lasts until 1688. With the increasing tensions over succession and the corresponding rise in journalism and periodicals, or until possibly 1700, when those periodicals grew more stabilised. 1651 – Publication of Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes. 1660–1669 – Samuel Pepys wrote his diary, which will become an important eyewitness account of the Restoration Era. 1662 – New edition of the Book of Common Prayer, largely based on the 1549 and subsequent editions. It long remained a standard work in English. 1667 – Publication of Paradise Lost by John Milton and of Annus Mirabilis by John Dryden Development to Modern English[edit] Main article: Modern English The 17th-century port towns and their forms of speech gained influence over the old county towns. From around the 1690s onwards, England experienced a new period of internal peace and relative stability, which encouraged the arts including literature. Modern English can be taken to have emerged fully by the beginning of the Georgian era in 1714, but English orthography remained somewhat fluid until the publication of Johnson's A Dictionary of the English Language, in 1755. The towering importance of William Shakespeare over the other Elizabethan authors was the result of his reception during the 17th and the 18th centuries, which directly contributes to the development of Standard English.[citation needed] Shakespeare's plays are therefore still familiar and comprehensible 400 years after they were written,[4] but the works of Geoffrey Chaucer and William Langland, which had been written only 200 years earlier, are considerably more difficult for the average modern reader. Orthography[edit] Shakespeare's writings are universally associated with Early Modern English. The orthography of Early Modern English was fairly similar to that of today, but spelling was unstable. Early Modern English, as well as Modern English, inherited orthographical conventions predating the Great Vowel Shift. Early Modern English spelling was similar to Middle English orthography. Certain changes were made, however, sometimes for reasons of etymology (as with the silent ⟨b⟩ that was added to words like debt, doubt and subtle). Early Modern English orthography had a number of features of spelling that have not been retained: The letter ⟨S⟩ had two distinct lowercase forms: ⟨s⟩ (short s), as is still used today, and ⟨ſ⟩ (long s). The short s was always used at the end of a word and contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 54 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Early_Modern_English responseCode 3 200 