ycogjegiicmsssuowieamizqeklqqsvikscsioce length 6 355483 page 10025 Head of government of Spain For a list, see List of prime ministers of Spain. For the head of state during Second Spanish Republic, see President of the Republic (Spain). President of the Government Presidente del Gobierno Coat of arms of Spain Incumbent Pedro Sánchez since 2 June 2018 Government of Spain Office of the Prime Minister Style The Most Excellent Type Head of government Member of Council of Ministers National Security Council European Council Reports to Monarch Cortes Generales Residence Palace of Moncloa Seat Madrid, Spain Nominator The Congress of Deputies Appointer The Monarch Term length No fixed term Deputy Deputy Prime Minister Salary €90,000 per annum[1] Website lamoncloa.gob.es Politics of Spain Constitution Constitution Constitutional Court President Cándido Conde-Pumpido Vice President Inmaculada Montalbán Huertas Constitutional history Spanish transition to democracy Human rights Taxation Law Abortion Nationality Capital punishment Life imprisonment The Crown Royal Household The Monarch (list) Felipe VI Heir presumptive (list) Leonor, Princess of Asturias Royal family Succession to the Spanish throne Executive Government of the Nation Prime Minister (list) Pedro Sánchez Deputy Prime Minister (list) Nadia Calviño (first) Yolanda Díaz (second) Teresa Ribera (third) Council of Ministers Sánchez III Government Ministries Government Delegations Government Delegated Committees Interministerial Committees Spanish prime-ministerial transition List of agencies in Spain Council of State Economic and Social Council Legislature Cortes Generales (14th Cortes Generales) Senate (14th Senate) Speaker (list) Ander Gil Congress of Deputies (14th Congress) Speaker (list) Meritxell Batet Parliamentary groups Permanent Deputation Bureaus of the Cortes Generales Board of Spokespersons People's Defender (ombudsman) Solemn Opening of the Parliament of Spain Judiciary General Council of the Judiciary Supreme Court President (list) Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Vice President Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Audiencia Nacional High courts of justice Court of Auditors Prosecution Ministry Euro European Central Bank Bank of Spain Governor of the Bank of Spain Pablo Hernández de Cos Deputy Governor of the Bank of Spain Margarita Delgado Tejero Royal Mint of Spain Administrative subdivisions Autonomous communities Legislatures Governments Presidents Autonomous cities Provinces Comarcas Municipalities Plazas de soberanía Elections Political parties Recent elections General: 2019 (Apr) 2019 (Nov) 2023 Regional: 2015 2019 2023 European: 2014 2019 2024 Referendums: 1978 1986 2005 Foreign relations Foreign relations Diplomatic missions of Spain in Spain Politics of the European Union Related topics Political parties: PP PSOE Podemos C's Spanish transition to democracy Francoist Spain Anarchism in Spain Liberalism and radicalism in Spain Spanish Civil War Nationalisms and regionalisms of Spain: Basque Catalan Galician Catalan independence movement (Spanish constitutional crisis of 2017–18) Disputed status of Gibraltar Republicanism in Spain (Second Spanish Republic) Spain portal Other countries v t e The prime minister of Spain, officially president of the Government[2] (Spanish: Presidente del Gobierno), is the head of government of Spain. The office was established in its current form by the Constitution of 1978 and it was first regulated in 1823 as a chairmanship of the extant Council of Ministers, although it is not possible to determine when it actually originated. Upon a vacancy, the Spanish monarch nominates a presidency candidate for a vote of confidence by the Congress of Deputies, the lower house of the Cortes Generales (parliament). The process is a parliamentarian investiture by which the head of government is indirectly elected by the elected Congress of Deputies. In practice, the prime minister is almost always the leader of the largest party in the Congress. Since current constitutional practice in Spain calls for the monarch to act on the advice of his ministers, the prime minister is the country's de facto chief executive. Pedro Sánchez of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) has been prime minister since 2 June 2018, after a successful motion of no confidence against former prime minister Mariano Rajoy. The Sánchez government technically ceased on 29 April 2019 after the 2019 Spanish general election, but carried on in an acting capacity afterwards. Following the November 2019 general election, Sánchez earned a second mandate as prime minister after receiving a plurality of votes in the second round vote of his investiture at the Congress of Deputies on 7 January 2020.[3][4] He resumed full duties as the prime minister after being formally installed by King Felipe VI on 8 January 2020.[5][6] His second government took office on 13 January 2020.[7][8][9][10] Official title The Spanish head of government has been known, since 1939, as "President of the Government" (Spanish: Presidente del Gobierno),[11][12] but the term 'president' is far older. Spain was not unique in this regard: it was one of several European parliamentary systems including France, Italy and Ireland that styled the head of government as 'presidents' of the government rather than the Westminster term of 'prime minister' (see President of the Council for the full list of corresponding terms); similarly, the president of the Congress or Senate referred to the parliamentary speakers. This system of multiple distinct offices all labelled 'president' causes confusion among English-speakers: both President George W. Bush and his brother, Florida governor Jeb Bush, referred to José María Aznar as "president" on separate occasions,[13][14] and Donald Trump referred to Mariano Rajoy both as "President" and "Mr. President" during Rajoy's 2017 White House visit.[15] While this term of address was not incorrect, it could be misleading to English speakers so prime minister is commonly used as a culturally equivalent term to ensure clarity. The custom to name the head of government as "president" dates back to the reign of Isabella II, specifically to 1834 and the regency of Maria Christina of the Two Sicilies when, styled after the head of government of the French July Monarchy (1830), the official title was the Presidente del Consejo de Ministros ("President of the Council of Ministers"). This remained until 1939, when the Second Spanish Republic ended. Before 1834 the figure was known as Secretario de Estado ("Secretary of State"), a denomination used today for junior ministers. Origin Since the 15th century, the Spanish monarchs has delegated its executive powers in relevant personalities. Two are the most important: the validos and the secretaries of state. The validos, which existed since early 15th century to the late 17th century were people of the highest confidence of the monarchs and they exercised the Crown's power in the monarch's name.[16] Since the 18th century, the validos disappeared and the secretaries of state were introduced. Both positions were de facto prime ministers (as demonstrated by the fact that since the tenure of the count-duke of Olivares, valido of Felipe IV, the validos were often called by courtiers and authors already in the 17th century as "principal minister or prime minister of Spain"[16]) although they can not be completely compared. On 19 November 1823, after a brief liberal democratic period called the Liberal Triennium between 1820 and 1823, King Ferdinand VII re-established the absolute monarchy and created the Council of Ministers that continues to exist today.[17] This council, when not chaired by the monarch, was chaired by the secretary of state for foreign affairs (Spanish: Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de Estado), who acted as prime minister.[17] This role was ratified by the Royal Statute of 1834, which constitutionalized for the first time the figure of the prime minister under the name of "President of the Council of Ministers", invested with executive powers. During the 19th century, the position changed names frequently. After the Glorious Revolution of 1868, it was renamed President of the Provisional Revolutionary Joint and later President of the Provisional Government. In 1869, the office resumed the name of President of the Council of Ministers. Following the abdication of King Amadeus I, during the First Republic (1873–1874) the office was known as the President of the Executive Power and was also head of state. In 1874, the office name reverted to President of the Council of Ministers. Since its inception, the prime minister has been appointed and dismissed by the will of the monarch. Successive constitutions have confirmed this royal prerogative of the monarch in the Constitution of 1837 (article 47),[18] article 46 of the Constitution of 1845,[19] the Constitution of 1869 (article 68),[20] and the Constitution of 1876 (article 54).[21] With the fall of the First Republic and the restoration of the Bourbon dynasty on King Alfonso XII, the office maintained its original name until the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, when it was renamed to President of the Military Directory. In 1925, the original name was restored again. Adolfo Suárez delivers his inaugural address to the Congress of Deputies at the Palacio de las Cortes, Madrid on March 30, 1979. The Republican Constitution of 1931 provided for the prime minister and the rest of the government to be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic but they were responsible before the Parliament and the Parliament could vote to dismiss the prime minister or a minister even against the will of the president of the republic.[22] In the Civil War, the head of government among the Nationalists was called Chief of the Government of the State and since January 1938 the office acquired the current name, President of the Government, but between that date and 1973 the office was held by Francisco Franco as dictator of Spain. In  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 57 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Spain responseCode 3 200 