ycoqwidicawqbmikmkjgzehkpsckpckcckgaioeo page 10158 This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "List of battles 1301–1600" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2023) (template removal help) This article may have too many links. Please review the guideline on links and help improve the article. (November 2023) (template removal help) (template removal help) This list is incomplete; you can help by adding missing items. (August 2008) Lists of battles Before 301 301–1300 1301–1600 1601–1800 1801–1900 1901–2000 2001–current Naval Sieges See also Map all coordinates in "Category:Battles of the Middle Ages" using: OpenStreetMap Download coordinates as: KML GPX (all coordinates) GPX (primary coordinates) GPX (secondary coordinates) Early 14th century (1301–1350)[edit] Year Battle Loc. Description 1302 Battle of the Golden Spurs 11 July – In Flanders, Flemish forces led by William of Jülich and Pieter de Coninck defeat French knights. Battle of Bapheus 27 July – The founder of the Ottoman dynasty Osman I defeats a Byzantine force. Siege of Chittorgarh 28 January – 26 August – The Delhi Sultanate defeats and conquers the Guhilas of Medapata. 1303 Battle of Roslin 24 February – Scottish forces led by John Comyn III ambush and defeat an English army at Roslin. Battle of Arques 4 April – Flemish forces led by William of Jülich defeat a French army at Arques. Battle of Marj al-Saffar 20–22 April – Mamluk forces defeat the Ilkhanate and their Armenian allies, last Mongol invasion of Syria. Siege of Maastricht May – The Prince-Bishopric of Liège fails to conquer Maastricht from the Duchy of Brabant. Battle of Dimbos Ottoman forces defeat Byzantine governors. Conquest of Sylhet Muslims led by Shamsuddin Firuz Shah conquer the Hindu Gour Kingdom led by Gour Govinda. Siege of Amsterdam William of Avesnes, commanding an army of the County of Holland captures Amsterdam from Jan I van Amstel, lord of Amstelland. Siege of Zierikzee A Flemish army under Guy of Namur fails to capture Zierikzee. 1304 Battle of Happrew February – English forces defeat a small Scottish army. Battle on the Manpad Witte van Haemstede, commanding an army of the County of Holland defeats a Flemish army under Guy of Namur near Heemstede. Second Siege of Stirling Castle April–July – King Edward I besieges the Scots successfully. The Warwolf siege engine is constructed and first used during this battle. Siege of Schoonhoven July – William of Avesnes, commanding the army of the County of Holland defeats rebel Schoonhoven. Battle of Zierikzee 10–11 August – A combined fleet from France, Genoa and Holland defeats a Flemish fleet. Battle of Mons-en-Pévèle 18 August – French forces under King Philip IV defeat the Flemish army at Mons-en-Pévèle. The battle is indecisive, which leads later to the Treaty of Athis-sur-Orge. 1305 Battle of Apros July – Byzantine forces under Co-Emperor Michael IX are defeated by the Catalan Company in Thrace. Battle of Amroha 20 December – The Delhi Sultanate defeats the invading Mongol forces of the Chagatai Khanate. 1306 Battle of Methven 19 June – English forces under Aymer de Valence defeat the newly crowned Robert the Bruce and the Scottish army, during a surprise attack on his camp at Methven. Hospitaller conquest of Rhodes Rhodes is conquered by the Hospitallers. Battle of Dalrigh July – Robert the Bruce is defeated by rival Scottish forces under John of Argyll of the Clan MacDougall at Dalrigh (also called "King's Field"). 1307 Battle of Loch Ryan February – Scottish forces under Thomas de Brus and Alexander de Brus are defeated by rival Scots at Loch Ryan. Battle of Glen Trool April – Scottish forces under King Robert the Bruce ambush and defeat the English army at Glen Trool. Battle of Loudoun Hill 10 May – Scottish forces under Robert the Bruce defeat the English army at Loudoun Hill. 1308 Battle of Inverurie 23 May – Scottish forces under Robert the Bruce defeat the rival Scots of the Clan Comyn at Oldmeldrum. Battle of the Pass of Brander August – Scottish forces under Robert the Bruce defeat the rival Scots of the Clan MacDougall at the Pass of Brander. Siege of Siwana Delhi forces conquer Siwana fortress in Rajasthan (North India). 1309 Siege of Almería August –December – Aragonese forces under King James II besiege the Saracen garrison at Almería. After two months, James is forced to break off the siege. First siege of Gibraltar 12 September – Castilian forces under King Ferdinand IV besiege and capture the Moorish fortress at Gibraltar. 1310 Siege of Algeciras July 1309 – January 1310 – Castile forced to withdraw siege on Granada city. Siege of Warangal Delhi forces sack the capital of the Kakatiya dynasty, leading to their inevitable annexation in the coming years. 1311 Siege of Dwarasamudra February - Hoysala Empire surrenders and agrees to pay tribute to Delhi Sultanate. Battle of Halmyros 15 March – Catalan Company defeats Walter V, Count of Brienne of Athens and goes on to capture Athens and Thebes. Battle of Wopławki 7 April – The Teutonic Knights under Heinrich von Plötzke defeat the Lithuanian forces near the village of Wopławki. Siege of Brescia 19 May - 19 September – Henry VII, King of the Romans captures rebel Brescia. 1312 Battle of Rozgony 15 June – Hungarian forces under King Charles I defeat the rebel army of Palatine Amadeus Aba at Rozgony. Battle of Gallipoli 2,000 Turcopoles are annihilated by a combined Byzantine, Kingdom of Serbia, and Genoese force. Battle of Amorgos Knights Hospitaller destroy the fleet of Menteshe. 1313 Battle of Gammelsdorf 9 November – Louis the Bavarian defeats his cousin Frederick I of Austria. 1314 Battle of Bannockburn Scottish forces under Robert the Bruce defeat King Edward II. Robert takes Stirling Castle and secures Scottish independence. 1315 Battle of Holíč 12 July – King John of Bohemia defeats Matthew III Csák. Siege of Carlisle 22 July – 1 August – Scottish forces led by Robert the Bruce besiege unsuccessfully Carlisle Castle. Battle of Montecatini 29 August – Pisa defeats allied forces of Florence and the Kingdom of Naples. Battle of Moiry Pass September – Scottish-Irish forces under Edward Bruce defeat an Irish garrison at Moyry Pass. Battle of Morgarten 15 November – Swiss forces defeat Leopold I, Duke of Austria on the shore of the Ägerisee. 1316 Battle of Skaithmuir February – Scottish forces under James Douglas defeat an English raiding party near Coldstream. Battle of Picotin 22 February – Ferdinand of Majorca defeats Matilda of Hainaut and the Achaean barons loyal to her. Battle of Manolada 5 July – Louis of Burgundy defeats the Majorcans, Ferdinand of Majorca is slain. Battle of Gransee August – A North German-Danish alliance led by Henry II of Mecklenburg defeat Waldemar the Great. Second Battle of Athenry 10 August – English forces defeat an Irish army under Felim O'Connor, king of Connacht. 1318 Battle of Dysert O'Dea 10 May – Irish forces under Ó Deághaidh defeat the English Lordship. Siege of Sittard John III, Duke of Brabant captures Sittard from Reinoud van Valkenburg. Battle of Faughart October 14 – English forces defeat a Scots–Irish army under Edward Bruce, who is slain. 1319 Battle of Chios The Knights Hospitaller and the Genoese of the Lordship of Chios score victory over an Aydinid fleet. 1320 Battle of Saint George 9 September – Byzantine forces under Andronikos Asen ambush and defeat the army of the Principality of Achaea, securing possession of Arcadia. Battle of Rhodes A Turkish invasion fleet is destroyed by the Knights Hospitaller and the Genoese, in an attempt to capture Rhodes. Battle of Marra Biete Ethiopians defeat Sultanate of Ifat. 1322 Battle of Bliska A coalition of Croatian noblemen defeat Mladen II Šubić of Bribir, Ban of Croatia. Battle of Burton Bridge English Royal forces defeat a rebel English army. Battle of Boroughbridge English Royal forces defeat a rebel English army fighting for the Scots. Battle of Mühldorf 28 September – Louis the Bavarian defeats and captures Frederick I of Austria. 1323 Siege of Warangal (1323) Delhi Sultanate conquers Kakatiya Empire. 1324 Siege of Villa di Chiesa Aragonese capture Sardinian town from Pisa. Battle of Lucocisterna Aragon conquers Sardinia from the Republic of Pisa. 1325 Battle of Zappolino Communal struggle between Bologna and Modena, Modena emerges victorious. Battle of Varey Vienne under Guigues de la Tour-du-Pin defeat the Savoyards. 1326 Siege of Bursa 6 April – Ottoman forces led by Sultan Orhan capture the fortified city of Bursa. Siege of Bristol 18–26 October – Queen Isabella of France besieges and captures Bristol after an eight-day siege. 1328 Battle of Cassel French under Philip VI defeat a revolting Flemish peasant army, killing their leaders. 1329 Siege of Medvėgalis 1 February - Teutonic Order captures Lithuanian fortress. 1329 Battle of Pelekanon 10 June – The second ruler of the Ottoman dynasty, Orhan, defeats the Byzantine emperor Andronicus III. Battle of Ardnocher Irish force led by William MacGeoghegan defeats English army under Thomas Butler, who is killed. 1330 Battle of Velbazhd 28 July - Serbia defeats Bulgaria and their Wallachian allies. Michael III of Bulgaria killed in battle. Battle of Posada 9 November – Basarab I of Wallachia defeats Charles I of Hungary. Battle of Fiodh-an-Átha Ualgarg O'Rourke is defeated by the English. 1331 Siege of Nicaea The Byzantine city of Nicaea falls to Ottomans under Orhan. Battle of Płowce 27 September - Kingdom of Poland defeats Teutonic Order. 1332 Battle of Das 3 July - Ethiopians led by their Emperor Amda Seyon defeat combined attack of Adal and Sultanate of Ifat in the Ethiopian mainland. Battle of Rusokastro 18 July - Bulgarians defeat Byzantines. Battle of Kingho contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 67 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/List_of_battles_1301%E2%80%931600 responseCode 3 200 