ycwcpsymimdqcekigsccqcxogmlmiavacamqxils length 6 682059 page 10078 West Germanic language Not to be confused with Germanic languages, High German languages, Standard German, or Germanium. This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "German language" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2020) (template removal help) This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. The specific problem is: multiple issues, see talk. Please help improve this article if you can. (June 2023) (template removal help) (template removal help) German Deutsch Native to Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Belgium Native speakers 170 million (2014)[1] L2 speakers: 80–85 million (2014)[1] Language family Indo-European Germanic West Germanic German Standard forms Standard German (German, Swiss, Austrian) Writing system Latin script (German alphabet) German Braille Until the seventh/eighth century: Runic Until the mid-20th century: Hebrew Alphabet[2][3][4][5][6] Signed forms Signed German Official status Official language in 6 countries Austria Belgium Germany Liechtenstein Luxembourg Switzerland 1 subdivision South Tyrol (Italy) Recognised minority language in 9 countries Brazil (6 municipalities)[7] Czech Republic Denmark (Syddanmark) Hungary (Sopron) Namibia Poland (Upper Silesia) Romania (select localities) Russia (Azovo German National District) Slovakia (Krahule) Language codes ISO 639-1 de ISO 639-2 ger (B) deu (T) ISO 639-3 Variously: deu – German gmh – Middle High German goh – Old High German gct – Colonia Tovar German bar – Bavarian cim – Cimbrian geh – Hutterite German ksh – Kölsch nds – Low German[note 1] sli – Lower Silesian ltz – Luxembourgish[note 2] vmf – Mainfränkisch mhn – Mòcheno pfl – Palatinate German pdc – Pennsylvania Dutch pdt – Plautdietsch[note 3] swg – Swabian German gsw – Swiss German uln – Unserdeutsch sxu – Upper Saxon wae – Walser German wep – Westphalian hrx – Riograndenser Hunsrückisch yec – Yenish Glottolog high1289 High German fran1268 Middle German high1286 Upper German Linguasphere 52-ACB–dl (Standard German) 52-AC (Continental West Germanic) 52-ACB (Deutsch & Dutch) 52-ACB-d (Central German) 52-ACB-e & -f (Upper and Swiss German) 52-ACB-h (émigré German varieties, including 52-ACB-hc (Hutterite German) & 52-ACB-he (Pennsylvania Dutch) 52-ACB-i (Yenish) Totalling 285 varieties: 52-ACB-daa to 52-ACB-i (Co)official majority language Co-official minority language Statutory minority/cultural language Non-statutory minority language This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA. German (Standard High German: Deutsch, pronounced [dɔʏtʃ] ⓘ) is a West Germanic language mainly spoken in Western Europe and Central Europe. It is the most widely spoken and official or co-official language in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, and the Italian province of South Tyrol. It is also an official language of Luxembourg and Belgium, as well as a recognized national language in Namibia. Outside Germany, it is also spoken by German communities in France (Alsace), Czech Republic (North Bohemia), Poland (Upper Silesia), Slovakia (Košice Region, Spiš, and Hauerland), and Hungary (Sopron). German is most similar to other languages within the West Germanic language branch, including Afrikaans, Dutch, English, the Frisian languages, Low German, Luxembourgish, Scots, and Yiddish. It also contains close similarities in vocabulary to some languages in the North Germanic group, such as Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish. German is the second-most widely spoken Germanic language after English, which is also a West Germanic language. German is one of the major languages of the world. It is the most spoken native language within the European Union. German is also widely taught as a foreign language, especially in continental Europe, where it is the third most taught foreign language (after English and French), and the United States. The language has been influential in the fields of philosophy, theology, science, and technology. It is the second-most commonly used scientific language and among the most widely used languages on websites. The German-speaking countries are ranked fifth in terms of annual publication of new books, with one-tenth of all books (including e-books) in the world being published in German. German is an inflected language, with four cases for nouns, pronouns, and adjectives (nominative, accusative, genitive, dative); three genders (masculine, feminine, neuter); and two numbers (singular, plural). It has strong and weak verbs. The majority of its vocabulary derives from the ancient Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family, while a smaller share is partly derived from Latin and Greek, along with fewer words borrowed from French and Modern English. German is a pluricentric language; the three standardized variants are German, Austrian, and Swiss Standard German. Standard German is sometimes referred as High German while referring to its regional origin of the High German languages. It is also notable for its broad spectrum of dialects, with many varieties existing in Europe and other parts of the world. Some of these non-standard varieties have become recognized and protected by regional or national governments. Since 2004, heads of state of the German-speaking countries have met every year[9] and the Council for German Orthography has been the main international body regulating German orthography. Classification[edit] Anglic languages English Scots Anglo-Frisian languages Anglic and Frisian (West, North, Saterland) North Sea Germanic languages Anglo-Frisian and Low German/Low Saxon West Germanic languages North Sea Germanic and Dutch; in Africa: Afrikaans ...... German (High): Central; in Lux.: Luxembourgish Upper ...... Yiddish Maurer's classification of German tribes (German) The Germanic languages in contemporary Europe German is an Indo-European language that belongs to the West Germanic group of the Germanic languages. The Germanic languages are traditionally subdivided into three branches: North Germanic, East Germanic, and West Germanic. The first of these branches survives in modern Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Faroese, and Icelandic, all of which are descended from Old Norse. The East Germanic languages are now extinct, and Gothic is the only language in this branch which survives in written texts. The West Germanic languages, however, have undergone extensive dialectal subdivision and are now represented in modern languages such as English, German, Dutch, Yiddish, Afrikaans, and others.[10] Within the West Germanic language dialect continuum, the Benrath and Uerdingen lines (running through Düsseldorf-Benrath and Krefeld-Uerdingen, respectively) serve to distinguish the Germanic dialects that were affected by the High German consonant shift (south of Benrath) from those that were not (north of Uerdingen). The various regional dialects spoken south of these lines are grouped as High German dialects, while those spoken to the north comprise the Low German/Low Saxon and Low Franconian dialects. As members of the West Germanic language family, High German, Low German, and Low Franconian have been proposed to be further distinguished historically as Irminonic, Ingvaeonic, and Istvaeonic, respectively. This classification indicates their historical descent from dialects spoken by the Irminones (also known as the Elbe group), Ingvaeones (or North Sea Germanic group), and Istvaeones (or Weser-Rhine group).[10] Standard German is based on a combination of Thuringian-Upper Saxon and Upper Franconian dialects, which are Central German and Upper German dialects belonging to the High German dialect group. German is therefore closely related to the other languages based on High German dialects, such as Luxembourgish (based on Central Franconian dialects) and Yiddish. Also closely related to Standard German are the Upper German dialects spoken in the southern German-speaking countries, such as Swiss German (Alemannic dialects) and the various Germanic dialects spoken in the French region of Grand Est, such as Alsatian (mainly Alemannic, but also Central–and Upper Franconian dialects) and Lorraine Franconian (Central Franconian). After these High German dialects, standard German is less closely related to languages based on Low Franconian dialects (e.g., Dutch and Afrikaans), Low German or Low Saxon dialects (spoken in northern Germany and southern Denmark), neither of which underwent the High German consonant shift. As has been noted, the former of these dialect types is Istvaeonic and the latter Ingvaeonic, whereas the High German dialects are all Irminonic; the differences between these languages and standard German are therefore considerable. Also related to German are the Frisian languages—North Frisian (spoken in Nordfriesland), Saterland Frisian (spoken in Saterland), and West Frisian (spoken in Friesland)—as well as the Anglic languages of English and Scots. These Anglo-Frisian dialects did not take part in the High German consonant shift, and the Anglic languages also adopted much vocabulary from both Old Norse and the Norman language. History[edit] Main article: History of German Old High German[edit] Main article: Old High German The history of the German language begins with the High German consonant shift during the Migration Period, which separated Old High German dialects from Old Saxon. This sound shift involved a drastic change in the pronunciation of both voiced and voiceless stop consonants (b, d, g, and p, t, k, respectively contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 49 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/German_language responseCode 3 200 