yekizcacqikmtmraoqsihswkfinibaaqbkakiokk length 6 205318 page 10022 Indian music director and composer This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (August 2016) (template removal help) This article's lead section may be too short to adequately summarize the key points. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. (November 2019) (template removal help) Pritam Chakrabarty Born (1971-06-14) 14 June 1971 (age 52)[1][2] Kolkata, West Bengal, India Nationality Indian Education Presidency College Alma mater Film and Television Institute of India, Pune Occupations Singer composer record producer instrumentalist Spouse Smita Chakraborty Children 2[3] Musical career Genres Film songs, pop, Sufi, rock, classical, Sufi rock Instruments Tabla, electric guitar, acoustic guitar, harmonium, keyboard,[4] vocals[5] Years active 2001–present Labels Tips, T-Series, YRF Music, Eros, Zee Music Company, Sony Music India, Saregama Musical artist Pritam Chakraborty (born 14 June 1971), also known mononymously as Pritam, is an Indian composer, instrumentalist, guitarist, and singer. After working as an ad jingles composer, he debuted as a co-composer in the 2001 Hindi film Tere Liye. As a solo composer, his composition of the title track of Dhoom helped him win the Zee Cine Award for Best Track of the Year. In a career spanning over two decades, he has composed music for more than 125 Bollywood Movies, and he has been the recipient of numerous awards, including 5 Filmfare Awards for Best Music Director from 21 nominations and 4 Mirchi Music Award for Music Composer of The Year from 14 nominations. For his immense music sense and creativity, he is widely credited as one of the most popular music directors of India. Early life[edit] Pritam was born in a Bengali Brahmin family to Anuradha Chakraborty and Prabodh Chakraborty. He gained his early training in music from his father and learned to play the guitar while he was in school. He went to St. James' School and has a bachelor's degree in geology from Presidency College. Pritam was associated with the non-partisan political platform Independents' Consolidation during his days at Presidency.[6] In 1994, Pritam joined FTII, Pune, where he took up Sound Recording and Engineering. Pritam formed a band called "Jotugriher Pakhi" with his Presidency batchmates, for which he played the guitar.[7] They released a cassette around that time. Pritam joined a Bangla band, Chandrabindoo. Later Pritam started the band Metro with James, Suhail, Soham, and Eric during his film called Life in a... Metro.[8] Career[edit] 1997–2003: Ad-Jingles and Bollywood debut[edit] After completing his sound engineering course from FTII Pune, Chakraborty came to Mumbai in 1997. He started composing ad jingles where he met other budding artists such as Shantanu Moitra, Rajkumar Hirani, Sanjay Gadhvi and Jeet Gannguli. Pritam composed renowned jingles for brands like Santro,[9] Emami, McDonald's,[10] Head & Shoulders, Thums Up, Limca, Complan and composed title tracks for TV serials such as Astitva, Kkavyanjali, Ye Meri Life Hai, Remix, Kashmeer, Miilee, and Dil Kare.[11] Pritam got his first break for Tere Liye (released December 2001).[12] Though the music was well-received, the film missed the mark. In 2002, The Jeet-Pritam duo once again composed music for Yash Raj Films' Mere Yaar Ki Shaadi Hai. All the songs from the film were chartbusters. Soon after, over some misunderstanding, Jeet decided to split and the partners and go their separate ways. 2004–2009: Dhoom, Life in a Metro and Love Aaj Kal[edit] Pritam's compositions were noted for their ability to blend Indian classical music with western styles. His compositions for Gadhvi's second film Dhoom were a runaway hit.[13][14] The title-track of Dhoom in two versions – Hindi (by Sunidhi Chauhan) and English (by Tata Young) – broke geographic barriers becoming popular in pubs in the UK, USA and the East Asia and won him his first Zee Cine Award for Best Track of the Year. He received his first nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director for the soundtrack of Dhoom. In 2006, he also composed the soundtrack and background score for Gadhvi's Dhoom sequel, Dhoom 2, which despite mixed critical reviews, achieved major commercial success and became the highest-selling Indian music album of the year. It also earned him his second nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director. He followed this up with compositions for films like Gangster, Jannat, and Kismat Konnection.[15] In 2007, his compositions for Anurag Basu's Life in a... Metro garnered him widespread critical acclaim.[16] He formed a band called Metro with Suhail Kaul, Sohu pet name Chakraborty, Eric Pillai and Bangladeshi singer James for the film.[17][18] He won his second Zee Cine Award for Best Track of the Year for the song "Mauja Hi Mauja" from Jab We Met by Imtiaz Ali. Jab We Met won him his first Producers Guild Film Award for Best Music Director. Both Jab We Met and Life in a... Metro earned him his third and fourth nominations for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director. He then composed the soundtracks of Race (2008), Love Aaj Kal (2009) and Ajab Prem Ki Ghazab Kahani (2009), all of which earned him his fifth, sixth and seventh nominations for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director. 2010–2014: Cocktail, Barfi! and Yeh Jawani Hai Deewani[edit] Pritam Chakraborty at a success bash for Cocktail His Sufi songs for the 2010 film Once Upon A Time in Mumbaai were popular with the masses[19] and songs like "Pee Loon" and "Tum Jo Aaye" were declared chartbusters, earning him his eighth nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director.[20][21] He teamed up again with Mahesh Bhatt and Vishesh Films for music of Crook[22] of which the song "Mere Bina" got instant recognition with public. His foot-tapping numbers for Rohit Shetty's Golmaal 3 were also equally successful.[23] In 2011, he got to work for Salman Khan's Ready and Bodyguard. He recreated the famous 1971 song, "Dum Maro Dum" for Ramesh Sippy's 2011 movie of the same name.[24][25] He then composed for the romance Mausam which had a strong influence of Punjabi.[26] The songs were phenomenal hits in Northern India with "Rabba Main To Mar Gaya Oye" being a rage among people.[27] In 2012, he composed several successful songs for films like Players, Agent Vinod, Jannat 2 and Vidhu Vinod Chopra's Ferrari Ki Sawaari, where he worked with Rajkumar Hirani.[28] Later that year, he scored the music for Barfi! which won him two awards, including his first Filmfare Award for Best Music Director.[29] Barfi is considered to be one of the most critically acclaimed soundtrack album of his career.[citation needed] He also reunited with Imtiaz Ali for the romantic comedy-drama Cocktail, which earned highly positive reviews, in addition to his tenth nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director. In 2013, he composed music for films such as Race 2, Murder 3, Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani, Dhoom 3[30] and Once Upon ay Time in Mumbai Dobaara which was his 100th film as a Music Director in Bollywood.[31] Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani in particular proved to be a milestone in Pritam's career, earning him widespread critical acclaim and accolades, and proved to be the highest selling Indian music album of the year. It also earned him his eleventh nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director. He started 2014 with compositions for Yaariyan, Shaadi Ke Side Effects & Holiday: A Soldier Is Never Off Duty. He then took a break in 2014.[32][33] He received his twelfth nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director for Yaariyan. 2015–2017: Ae Dil Hai Mushkil and Jagga Jasoos[edit] He marked his return with three successful albums in 2015: Kabir Khan's Bajrangi Bhaijaan & Phantom and Rohit Shetty's Dilwale for which he earned his thirteenth nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director.[34] The song, "Gerua" from Dilwale directly opened at the No. 1 position on the Radio Mirchi charts[35] and became the first Bollywood song to cross 100 million views on YouTube in the shortest duration ever.[36] It also ranked in the top slot in places like Malaysia, Oman, Sri Lanka and Bahrain.[35] In 2016, he appeared as a guest composer and composed the song "Itni Si Baat Hai" for Azhar; the albums other composers were Amaal Mallik and DJ Chetas. He also composed the soundtracks of Dishoom, Ae Dil Hai Mushkil and Dangal. The soundtrack of Ae Dil Hai Mushkil proved to be yet another milestone in Pritam's career, earning him career-best reviews and accolades, including his second Filmfare Award for Best Music Director. In 2017, he composed the soundtracks of Jagga Jasoos (which earned him his third Filmfare Award for Best Music Director), Raabta along with Sohrabuddin, Sourav Roy and JAM8, Tubelight and Jab Harry Met Sejal along with Diplo, earning his sixteenth nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director. 2019–present: Kalank, Ludo and Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva[edit] After a break in 2018, he return to composing in 2019 with Chhichhore and Kalank, earning his seventeenth nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director for the latter. In 2020, he composed the soundtracks of he composed of Love Aaj Kal (which earned him his eighteenth nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Music Director) and Ludo. For Ludo, he won his fourth Filmfare Award for Best Music Director. In 2021, he composed songs for Tadap and 83. In 2022, he composed all the songs of Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva, Bhool Bhulaiyaa 2 and Laal Singh Chaddha (which earned him his twentieth nomination for the F contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 40 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Pritam responseCode 3 200 