ygbohgrkfcjcriwokozkumrsbetkviuqlgtcfggg length 6 286508 page 10033 Portal maintenance status: (October 2020) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia portal for content related to Current events Edit instructions Wikimedia portal Worldwide current events Sports events Recent deaths Entry views by week list Wikimedia portal Topics in the news Travis Head The Cricket World Cup concludes with Australia defeating India in the final (Player of the Match Travis Head pictured). Pedro Sánchez is invested as Prime Minister of Spain, after proposing amnesty for Catalan separatists and then receiving support from them. In the Myanmar civil war, opposition forces capture multiple cities in a major offensive against the ruling military junta. Ongoing: Israel–Hamas war Russian invasion of Ukraine timeline War in Sudan Recent deaths: Rosalynn Carter Claude Kahn A. S. Byatt Worta McCaskill-Stevens Subrata Roy Tengiz Kitovani Nominate an article November 20, 2023 (2023-11-20) (Monday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Myanmar civil war Operation 1107 Artillery fired by the military destroys a monastery in Loikaw, Kayah State, killing two monks. (The Irrawaddy) War in Sudan Battle of Khartoum The Rapid Support Forces announce that it has captured the Jebel Aulia Dam. (Sudan Tribune) Darfur campaign The Rapid Support Forces launch an assault on Ed Daein, capital of East Darfur, capturing the city's airport, as the group attempts to seize the headquarters of the Sudanese Armed Forces 20th Infantry Division. (Sudan Tribune) November 19, 2023 (2023-11-19) (Sunday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks 2023 Israel–Hamas war Houthi involvement in the 2023 Israel–Hamas war The Houthi movement hijacks the British cargo ship Galaxy Leader [ru] operated by a Japanese company and partially owned by an Israeli businessman in the Red Sea. (Al Arabiya) (Jerusalem Post) Houthi spokesman Yahya Sarea declares the group's intention to target ships that are owned or operated by Israeli companies, or are flying the Israeli flag. (Al Arabiya) (Jerusalem Post) At least 32 people are killed and 20 others are injured in a mass shooting against two villages in Abyei, an area that is disputed between Sudan and South Sudan. (AP) Arts and culture One of French emperor Napoleon's bicorne hats is sold for a record €1.93 million (around US$2.11 million) at an auction in France. (AFP via KPVI) Business and economy Optus CEO Bayer Rosmarin resigns following a network outage in Australia that took down its phone and internet services nationwide for 14 hours earlier this month. (The Guardian) Disasters and accidents 2023 Africa floods The death toll from the floods in Kenya, Somalia, and Ethiopia, increases to 130 people. The Somali town of Beledweyne has been completely submerged after the Shebelle River burst its banks, forcing 90% of the population out of their homes, while 30,000 people are displaced in Kenya as hundreds of homes have been destroyed. (AP) At least 21 people are killed by flooding in the Dominican Republic. (Reuters) Eleven people are killed when a passenger train hits their minibus on a no-barrier level crossing in Lumajang, East Java, Indonesia. (Xinhua via The Star) International relations Nicaragua completes its withdrawal from the Organization of American States. (La Prensa Latina) (La Prensa) Politics and elections 2023 Argentine general election Javier Milei of La Libertad Avanza is elected president after beating Peronist Sergio Massa 56% to 44% in the second round run-off. (BBC News) Sports 2023 ATP Tour 2023 ATP Finals In tennis, Serbian Novak Djokovic wins a record seventh ATP Finals singles title after defeating Italian Jannik Sinner in two sets, 6–3, 6–3, in the final. Djokovic, who successfully defended his title, surpasses Roger Federer's total of six titles. (AP) 2023 Cricket World Cup In cricket, Australia wins a record sixth World Cup title after defeating host nation India by six wickets in the final. India's Virat Kohli is named player of the tournament. (AFP via France 24) 2023 League of Legends World Championship In esports, South Korean team T1 wins a record-extending fourth World Championship in the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends, after defeating Chinese team Weibo Gaming 3–0 in the final. (AFP via France 24) 110th Grey Cup, 2023 CFL season In Canadian football, the Montreal Alouettes defeat the Winnipeg Blue Bombers 28–24, claiming their eighth Canadian Football League championship title. (TSN) November 18, 2023 (2023-11-18) (Saturday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks 2023 Israel–Hamas war 2023 Hamas attack on Israel In a report by the Haaretz, a helicopter from the Israel Defense Forces that was engaged against Hamas also struck party-goers during the festival massacre. (Business Insider) Kivu conflict M23 offensive At least four civilians and three soldiers are killed, with 11 injured, in a mass shooting at a IDP camp in Nyiragongo, North Kivu, DRC, amid ongoing conflict between the army and M23 rebels. (AFP via New Vision) War in Sudan Battle of Khartoum The Jebel Aulia Bridge, part of the Jebel Aulia Dam complex, is destroyed amid heavy fighting in Jabal Awliya, although the dam itself remains intact. It is the second bridge in Khartoum to be destroyed in the past week. (Sudan Tribune) Arts and culture Miss Universe 2023 Miss Nicaragua Sheynnis Palacios is crowned Miss Universe by her predecessor, R'Bonney Gabriel, marking the country's first win in the pageant's history. (CNN) Disasters and accidents 2023 Uttarakhand tunnel collapse Efforts to rescue 40 workers trapped in a collapsed tunnel in Uttarakhand, India, are suspended due to concerns of further cave-ins. (AFP via Dawn) A woman dies at the first of American singer Taylor Swift's concerts at the Estádio Olímpico Nilton Santos in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, during a day when temperatures reached 39.1 °C (102.4 °F). Swift postpones her second concert in the city due to the heat. (The Guardian) (AFP via Manila Bulletin) Law and crime France's Horizons party suspends Loire-Atlantique Senator Joël Guerriau following his arrest and formal charge for allegedly administering a date rape drug to MP Sandrine Josso, with the Independents caucus in the Senate also suspending him and initiating expulsion procedures. (AFP via The Straits Times) Politics and elections 2023 Democratic Republic of the Congo general election Four major Congolese opposition parties form a coalition to contest President Félix Tshisekedi in the upcoming election. Martin Fayulu's party remains absent from the agreement. (AFP via The Citizen) Science and technology SpaceX Starship Second Integrated Flight Test American aerospace manufacturer SpaceX launches the second test flight of the Starship rocket, at Starbase in Texas, United States, reaching an altitude of 148 kilometres (92 mi). The Super Heavy booster explodes shortly after separation, with the second stage terminating itself eight minutes into the flight. (CNBC) (CNN) November 17, 2023 (2023-11-17) (Friday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks 2023 Israel–Hamas war 2023 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip Israel calls on civilians to evacuate Khan Yunis in the south of Gaza and head to field hospitals, saying that Israeli troops will be carrying out a military operation in the area. (Reuters) An Israeli airstrike kills Ahmad Bahar, a senior leader in Hamas who served as the vice president of the Palestinian Legislative Council. (Times of Israel) Ten fuel trucks enter Gaza from Egypt through the Rafah Border Crossing, carrying 150,000 litres of diesel fuel. (Al-Ahram) Myanmar civil war Operation 1027 The military recaptures the town of Pauktaw, Rakhine State, from the Arakan Army following heavy bombardment of the town. (Myanmar Now) A Myanmar Air Force warplane bombs a school in Chin State, killing at least eight children. (BBC News) Operation 1107 Karenni rebels overrun military forces sheltering inside the district courthouse in Loikaw, Kayah State, subsequently setting the building on fire as fighting continues in the city. (The Irrawaddy) Business and economy 2022–2023 food crises Russia begins its shipments of free grain to Africa as part of President Vladimir Putin's pledge to send 200,000 tonnes of grain to six African nations. (AFP via The Moscow Times) 2023 United Auto Workers strike The United Auto Workers and General Motors ratify a contract to end the strike at General Motors plants across the United States. (ABC) The Al Dhafra solar farm, the largest solar farm in the world, comes online in the United Arab Emirates. The solar farm is expected to power around 200,000 homes. (Electrek) Sam Altman steps down as CEO of American artificial intelligence developer OpenAI following a vote from the company's board of directors demanding his resignation. In response, fellow co-founder Greg Brockman quits his role as president of OpenAI. Mira Murati takes over as interim CEO. (CNBC) Disasters and accidents 2023 Mindanao earthquake A magnitude 6.7 earthquake hits southern Mindanao, Philippines, killing at least seven people and leaving two others missing. (Bloomberg) International relations APEC United States 2023 Japan–United States relations Japan and the United States finalize a $2.35 billion deal for the latter to export 400 Tomahawk cruise missiles to the former. (AFP via France 24) Philippines–United States relations The Philippines and the United States sign a deal for the latter to export nuclear technology and materials to the former. (Reuters) Nagorno-Karabakh conflict The International Court of Justice orders Azerbaijan to facilitate the "safe, unimpeded, and expeditious" return of displaced people to Nagorno-Karabakh, following the country's offensive, and to ensure freedom of movement for those wishing to leave or remain in the region. (AFP via RF contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 55 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Portal:Current_events responseCode 3 200 