ygogriomnkfcaqfstqgetkqgyovgjkwmdsumjqsc length 6 101762 page 7370 Court in Spain National Court Audiencia Nacional Audiencia Nacional headquarters, in Madrid Established 4 January 1977 Location Calle García Gutiérrez, 1, Madrid Authorized by Judiciary Organic Act Appeals to Supreme Court President Currently José Ramón Navarro Since 8 January 2014 Politics of Spain Constitution Constitution Constitutional Court President Cándido Conde-Pumpido Vice President Inmaculada Montalbán Huertas Constitutional history Spanish transition to democracy Human rights Taxation Law Abortion Nationality Capital punishment Life imprisonment The Crown Royal Household The Monarch (list) Felipe VI Heir presumptive (list) Leonor, Princess of Asturias Royal family Succession to the Spanish throne Executive Government of the Nation Prime Minister (list) Pedro Sánchez Deputy Prime Minister (list) Nadia Calviño (first) Yolanda Díaz (second) Teresa Ribera (third) Council of Ministers Sánchez III Government Ministries Government Delegations Government Delegated Committees Interministerial Committees Spanish prime-ministerial transition List of agencies in Spain Council of State Economic and Social Council Legislature Cortes Generales (14th Cortes Generales) Senate (14th Senate) Speaker (list) Ander Gil Congress of Deputies (14th Congress) Speaker (list) Meritxell Batet Parliamentary groups Permanent Deputation Bureaus of the Cortes Generales Board of Spokespersons People's Defender (ombudsman) Solemn Opening of the Parliament of Spain Judiciary General Council of the Judiciary Supreme Court President (list) Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Vice President Francisco Marín Castán (acting) Audiencia Nacional High courts of justice Court of Auditors Prosecution Ministry Euro European Central Bank Bank of Spain Governor of the Bank of Spain Pablo Hernández de Cos Deputy Governor of the Bank of Spain Margarita Delgado Tejero Royal Mint of Spain Administrative subdivisions Autonomous communities Legislatures Governments Presidents Autonomous cities Provinces Comarcas Municipalities Plazas de soberanía Elections Political parties Recent elections General: 2019 (Apr) 2019 (Nov) 2023 Regional: 2015 2019 2023 European: 2014 2019 2024 Referendums: 1978 1986 2005 Foreign relations Foreign relations Diplomatic missions of Spain in Spain Politics of the European Union Related topics Political parties: PP PSOE Podemos C's Spanish transition to democracy Francoist Spain Anarchism in Spain Liberalism and radicalism in Spain Spanish Civil War Nationalisms and regionalisms of Spain: Basque Catalan Galician Catalan independence movement (Spanish constitutional crisis of 2017–18) Disputed status of Gibraltar Republicanism in Spain (Second Spanish Republic) Spain portal Other countries v t e The Audiencia Nacional ( Spanish pronunciation: [awˈðjen.θja naθjoˈnal]; English: National Court) is a centralised court in Spain with jurisdiction over all of the Spanish territory. It is specialised in a certain scope of delinquency, having original jurisdiction over major crimes such as those committed against the Crown and its members, terrorism, forgery of currency, credit and debit cards and checks, some trade crimes committed in more than one region and over drug trafficking, food frauds and medical frauds committed in a nationwide level as well as over international crimes which come under the competence of Spanish courts. (LOPJ § 65). It has also appellate jurisdiction over the cases of the Criminal Chamber of the National Court (LOPJ § 64).[1] The Audiencia Nacional was created in 1977 at the same time as the Public Order Court (Tribunal de Orden Público), an exceptional court created in Francoist Spain, ceased to exist. Most of the rulings of the National Court can ultimately be appealed before the Supreme Court (Tribunal Supremo). Its seat lies in Madrid, at Calle García Gutiérrez, 1, located across the Plaza Villa de Paris from the Supreme Court. Structure[edit] The Audiencia is composed of its President, the Presidents of the Chambers, and the magistrates that the law specifies for each one of its courts and divisions. The Audiencia includes the following chambers:[1] Criminal Chamber, which is competent to try certain types of serious crimes such as terrorism, money laundering, genocide, etc., makes decisions about extradition demands by foreign countries and the execution of European arrest warrants, and hears appeals against rulings of the Central Criminal Courts (Juzgados Centrales de lo Penal). Appeals Chamber, which hears appeals against rulings of the Criminal Chamber. Administrative Chamber, which exercises judicial review of administrative decisions by senior officers (Ministers and Secretaries of State of the Government) and certain specialised agencies (Spanish Data Protection Agency, Concurrence Protection Commission, etc.) Social Chamber, which has jurisdiction over collective conflicts between businesspersons and workers. Related courts[edit] Even when they are not part of the National Court, because they are in the same building, the Central Courts are popularly considered part of it. These courts have jurisdiction in all the national territory.[1] Central Criminal Courts (LOPJ § 89 bis). They prosecute the same crimes as the Criminal Chamber when they have sentence of less than five years of prison. Central Instruction Courts (LOPJ § 88). These courts investigate the crimes that are then prosecuted by the Criminal Chamber of the National Court or the Central Criminal Courts. Central Courts of Prison Vigilance (LOPJ § 94.4). They attend to the enforcement of the penalties imposed by the National Court or the Central Criminal Court Central Minors Courts (LOPJ § 96.2). They prosecutes the same crimes as the National Court and the Central Criminal Court but when minors are accused. Central Administrative Courts (LOPJ § 90.4). These courts a responsible for the appeals against dispositions and acts emanated from authorities, organisms, organs and public entities with competence over the national territory. Prosecutor's Office[edit] Main article: Prosecution Ministry See also: Attorney General of Spain The Prosecutor's Office of the National Court is the body of the Attorney General's Office that prosecute all the cases related to the National Court with the exception of those cases granted to the Special Prosecution Offices (Anti-Drug Prosecutor's Office and Prosecutor's Office against Corruption and Organized Crime). The Prosecutor's Office, and the Special Prosecution Offices are headed each one by a Chief Prosecutor and with a Lieutenant Prosecutor as second-in-command. See also[edit] Constitutional Court of Spain Judiciary of Spain References[edit] ^ a b c "Organic Act of the Judiciary of 1985". www.boe.es. Retrieved 2019-02-16. v t e Judiciary of Spain Governing body General Council of the Judiciary (President) National Supreme Court President Vice President Audiencia Nacional High Courts of Justice Andalusia, Ceuta and Melilla Canarias Cantabria Castile and León Castile-La Mancha Catalonia Extremadura Galicia Other Courts Audiencia provincial Judicial districts Courts for Violence against Women Law Offices Prosecution Ministry Prosecutor General Courts outside the Judiciary Constitutional Court (President) Court of Auditors Authority control databases International VIAF National Spain United States contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 52 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Audiencia_Nacional responseCode 3 200 