yidspcpotatarcpqsopebkemaioiridahqlcsipc page 9767 You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in French. (January 2023) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the French article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 5,860 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing French Wikipedia article at [[:fr:Ordre des Arts et des Lettres]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|fr|Ordre des Arts et des Lettres}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. French award given for contributions to the arts Award Ordre des Arts et des Lettres Insignia of an Officier and a Chevalier Type Order of merit with 3 degrees: Commandeur (Commander) Officier (Officer) Chevalier (Knight) Awarded for Significant contribution to the enrichment of the French cultural inheritance Presented by French Minister of Culture Status Active Established 2 May 1957 Website http://www.culture.gouv.fr/culture/artsetlettres/ Commandeur Officier Chevalier Ribbon bars of the Order Precedence Next (higher) Ordre du Mérite Maritime Next (lower) Médaille des Évadés The Ordre des Arts et des Lettres ('Order of Arts and Letters') is an order of France established on 2 May 1957 by the Minister of Culture. Its supplementary status to the Ordre national du Mérite was confirmed by President Charles de Gaulle in 1963. Its purpose is the recognition of significant contributions to the arts, literature, or the propagation of these fields. Its origin is attributed to the Order of Saint Michael (established 1 August 1469), as acknowledged by French government sources.[1][2][3] Background To be considered for the award, French government guidelines stipulate that citizens of France must be at least thirty years old, respect French civil law, and must have "significantly contributed to the enrichment of the French cultural inheritance". Membership is not, however, limited to French nationals; recipients include numerous foreign luminaries. Foreign recipients are admitted into the Order "without condition of age". The Order has three grades: Commandeur (Commander) — medallion worn on a necklet; up to 20 recipients a year Officier (Officer) — medallion worn on a ribbon with rosette on left breast; up to 60 recipients a year Chevalier (Knight) — medallion worn on a ribbon on left breast; up to 200 recipients a year The médaille (medallion) of the Order is an eight-pointed, green-enameled asterisk, in gilt for Commanders and Officers and in silver for Knights; the obverse central disc has the letters "A" and "L" on a white-enameled background, surrounded by a golden ring emblazoned with the phrase République Française. The reverse central disc features the head of Marianne on a golden background, surrounded by a golden ring bearing the words Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. The Commander's badge is topped by a gilt twisted ring. The ribbon of the Order is green with four white stripes. Members of the Order Main article: List of members of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres Ray Bradbury wearing the Commander's badge in 2009 According to the statutes of the Order, French citizens must wait a minimum of 5 years before they are eligible to be upgraded from Chevalier to Officier, or Officier to Commandeur, and must have displayed additional meritorious deeds than just those that originally made them a Chevalier. However, in the statutes, there is a clause saying "Les Officiers et les Commandeurs de la Légion d'honneur peuvent être directement promus à un grade équivalent dans l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres". (Translation: "The officers and commanders of the Legion of Honour can be promoted directly to an equivalent grade in the Order of Arts and Letters".) This means that if someone were to be made Officier of the Legion of Honour, then the next year, that person could be directly made Officier of the Order of Arts and Letters and bypass a nomination as a knight and the five-year rule. See also Ribbons of the French military and civil awards Ordre des arts et des lettres du Québec, a Quebec order based in part on the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres References ^ "Conseil de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres" [Council of the Order of Arts and Letters]. Ministère de la Culture (in French). Archived from the original on 9 November 2018. Retrieved 21 August 2022. ^ Archives de FranceArchived 2013-04-16 at the Wayback Machine ^ Mémodoc External links Wikimedia Commons has media related to Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. "Nominations dans l'Ordre des Arts et Lettres" (in French). Ministry of Culture (France). 2007. Archived from the original on 10 February 2009. Retrieved 6 February 2009. v t e Orders, decorations, and medals of France Orders National Order of the Legion of Honour Order of Liberation Order of Merit Ministerial Order of Academic Palms Order of Agricultural Merit Order of Maritime Merit Order of Arts and Letters Territorial Order of Tahiti Nui Decorations and medals Civilian Honour medal for courage and devotion Honour medal of Aeronautics Honour medal of Foreign Affairs Agricultural honour medal Honour medal of railroads Regional, departmental and municipal honour medal Honour medal of customs Honour medal of Waters and Forests Honour medal of 1st degree education Penitentiary honour medal Honour medal for civilian personnel of the Defense Ministry Honour medal of the National Police Honour medal for firefighters Medal for internal security Honour medal of Musical Societies and Choirs Honour medal of the Judicial Protection of Youth Honour medal for work Honour medal of Civil Engineering Insigne des blessés civils Medal of the French Family Honour medal for youth, sports and associative engagements Medal of Mines Medal of Tourism National Medal of Recognition for victims of terrorism Defence and Internal Security Volunteer Reservists Medal Military Médaille militaire Croix de guerre 1914–1918 Croix de Guerre 1939–1945 Croix de guerre des théâtres d'opérations extérieures Cross for Military Valour Medal of the National Gendarmerie Resistance Medal Escapees' Medal Volunteer combatant's cross 1914–1918 Volunteer combatant's cross Cross of the resistance volunteer combatant Combatant's Cross Aeronautical Medal Overseas Medal National Defence Medal Medal for voluntary military service Defence and Internal Security Volunteer Reservists Medal Medal of the Nation's Gratitude Medal for the War Wounded Military Health Service honour medal Commemorative medals 1852 – 1871: Second Empire Saint Helena Medal Commemorative medal of the 1859 Italian Campaign Commemorative medal of the 1860 China Expedition Commemorative medal of the Mexico Expedition 1871–1914: Belle Époque Commemorative medal of the 1870–1871 War Tonkin Expedition commemorative medal (1885) Dahomey Expedition commemorative medal (1892) Madagascar Expeditions commemorative medal Colonial Medal China Expedition commemorative medal (1901) Morocco commemorative medal (1909) 1914–1918: World War I 1914–1918 Inter-Allied Victory medal Dardanelles campaign medal Orient campaign medal Commemorative medal of the 1914–1918 War Medal of French Gratitude Medal for Victims of the Invasion Medal for civilian prisoners, deportees and hostages of the 1914-1918 Great War 1918–1939: Interwar Syria-Cilicia commemorative medal 1939–1945: World War II Commemorative medal for voluntary service in Free France Italian Campaign medal Medal for deportation and internment for acts of resistance Political deportation and internment medal Commemorative medal of the 1939–1945 War Medal of a liberated France Recusant's insignia 1945–1964: Decolonisation United Nations operations in Korea commemorative medal Indochina Campaign commemorative medal Middle East operations commemorative medal North Africa Security and Order Operations Commemorative Medal Since 1964 Medal of the Nation's Gratitude North Africa medal United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon medal French commemorative medal Medal for the Military Protection of the Territory Defunct orders Royal & Imperial Order of Saint Michael Order of the Holy Spirit Order of Saint Louis Order of Military Merit Order of the Iron Crown Order of the Three-Golden Fleeces Order of the Reunion Decoration of The Lily Decoration of the Bordeaux Armband Decoration of the Fidelity Medal of the wounded Order of the Cross of July Ministerial Order of Merit for Veterans Order of Military Merit Order of Civil Merit Order of Social Merit Order of Labour Merit Order of Touristic Merit Order of the National Economy Order of Commercial and Industrial Merit Order of Artisan Merit Order of Public Health Order of Postal Merit Order of Sport Merit Colonial Order of Indochinese Merit Order of Saharan Merit Order of the Black Star Order of the Star of Anjouan Ordrer of Nichan el Anouar Imperial Order of the Dragon of Annam Royal Order of Cambodia Order of Merit of Madagascar and dependencies Order of Merit of Cameroon France portal contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 67 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Chevalier_des_Arts_et_des_Lettres responseCode 3 200 