yiicomcgbknioclauoucsqfepckohsdisijoeelk page 5918 The following is an archived discussion of the DYK nomination of the article below. Please do not modify this page. Subsequent comments should be made on the appropriate discussion page (such as this nomination's talk page, the article's talk page or Wikipedia talk:Did you know), unless there is consensus to re-open the discussion at this page. No further edits should be made to this page. The result was: promoted by Bruxton (talk) 18:18, 8 August 2023 (UTC) DYK toolbox DYK check Reviewer instructions Earwig's Copyvio Detector QPQ check Character count A Simple Word Counter Reviewers' template Find sources (notability) Hook length Jug Bennett, Merle Zuver, Lyle Sturgeon, Wuert Engelmann, Zud Schammel, Hal Hinte, Frank Butler (American football) ( Back to T:TDYK ) ( Article history links: Jug Bennett Merle Zuver Lyle Sturgeon Wuert Engelmann Zud Schammel Hal Hinte Frank Butler (American football) ) ... that Jug Bennett, Merle Zuver, Lyle Sturgeon, Wuert Engelmann, Zud Schammel, Hal Hinte and Frank Butler all played for Green Bay Packers Hall of Fame head coach Curly Lambeau during the 1930s and 1940s? Sources: Jug Bennett: [1] Merle Zuver: [2] Lyle Sturgeon: [3] Wuert Engelmann: [4] Zud Schammel: [5] Hal Hinte: [6] Frank Butler (American football): [7] Reviewed: (1) Gisele Thompson; (2) Unus testis, nullus testis; (3) List of songs recorded by Angeline Quinto; (4) Ade Surapriatna; (5) C. O. Brocato; (6) Bradley Winslow; (7) Get Him Back! 5x expanded by Gonzo fan2007 (talk). Self-nominated at 15:45, 7 August 2023 (UTC). Post-promotion hook changes for this nom will be logged at Template talk:Did you know nominations/Jug Bennett; consider watching this nomination, if it is successful, until the hook appears on the Main Page. I'll review these. BeanieFan11 (talk) 15:52, 7 August 2023 (UTC) BeanieFan11 QPQ is done. I'm never doing a 7-part nom ever again haha. Thanks for taking this on. « Gonzo fan2007 (talk) @ 19:24, 7 August 2023 (UTC) Reviewing... For Bennett: General: Article is new enough and long enough New enough: Y Long enough: Y Policy: Article is sourced, neutral, and free of copyright problems Adequate sourcing: Y Neutral: Y Free of copyright violations, plagiarism, and close paraphrasing: Y Hook: Hook has been verified by provided inline citation Cited: Y Interesting: Y QPQ: Done. Overall: Bennett meets all the criteria. BeanieFan11 (talk) 19:37, 7 August 2023 (UTC) For Zuver: General: Article is new enough and long enough New enough: Y Long enough: Y Policy: Article is sourced, neutral, and free of copyright problems Adequate sourcing: Y Neutral: Y Free of copyright violations, plagiarism, and close paraphrasing: Y Hook: Hook has been verified by provided inline citation Cited: Y Interesting: Y QPQ: Done. Overall: Zuver meets all the criteria (albeit barely, as the length is only a couple of letters over the limit - expansion would be nice but is not required). BeanieFan11 (talk) 20:24, 7 August 2023 (UTC) For Sturgeon: General: Article is new enough and long enough New enough: Y Long enough: Y Policy: Article is sourced, neutral, and free of copyright problems Adequate sourcing: Y Neutral: Y Free of copyright violations, plagiarism, and close paraphrasing: Y Hook: Hook has been verified by provided inline citation Cited: Y Interesting: Y QPQ: Done. Overall: Sturgeon meets all the criteria. BeanieFan11 (talk) 20:43, 7 August 2023 (UTC) For Englemann: General: Article is new enough and long enough New enough: Y Long enough: Y Policy: Article is sourced, neutral, and free of copyright problems Adequate sourcing: Y Neutral: Y Free of copyright violations, plagiarism, and close paraphrasing: Y Hook: Hook has been verified by provided inline citation Cited: Y Interesting: Y QPQ: Done. Overall: Englemann meets all the criteria (just passes the length requirement - though further expansion is not required, I see a few additional details you might want to add from the German Wikipedia of all places, including that he narrowly missed qualifying for the 1928 Olympics and was inducted into the South Dakota Hall of Fame). BeanieFan11 (talk) 20:43, 7 August 2023 (UTC) For Schammel: General: Article is new enough and long enough New enough: Y Long enough: Y Policy: Article is sourced, neutral, and free of copyright problems Adequate sourcing: Y Neutral: Y Free of copyright violations, plagiarism, and close paraphrasing: Y Hook: Hook has been verified by provided inline citation Cited: Y Interesting: Y QPQ: Done. Overall: Schammel meets all the criteria. BeanieFan11 (talk) 20:56, 7 August 2023 (UTC) For Hinte: General: Article is new enough and long enough New enough: Y Long enough: Y Policy: Article is sourced, neutral, and free of copyright problems Adequate sourcing: Y Neutral: Y Free of copyright violations, plagiarism, and close paraphrasing: Y Hook: Hook has been verified by provided inline citation Cited: Y Interesting: Y QPQ: Done. Overall: Hinte meets all the criteria. BeanieFan11 (talk) 20:56, 7 August 2023 (UTC) For Butler: General: Article is new enough and long enough New enough: Y Long enough: Y Policy: Article is sourced, neutral, and free of copyright problems Adequate sourcing: Y Neutral: Y Free of copyright violations, plagiarism, and close paraphrasing: Y Hook: Hook has been verified by provided inline citation Cited: Y Interesting: Y QPQ: Done. Overall: Butler meets all the criteria (albeit barely, being seven characters over the limit). BeanieFan11 (talk) 20:56, 7 August 2023 (UTC) After further review, this DYK nomination is good! Each article appears to meet all the criteria, and thus this nomination appears ready to go! Nice work. BeanieFan11 (talk) 20:59, 7 August 2023 (UTC) Thanks BeanieFan11, I expanded Engelmann with your new info/sources. Thanks! Zuver was the toughest one. Not much more to expand on. Appreciate the thorough review! « Gonzo fan2007 (talk) @ 21:06, 7 August 2023 (UTC) contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 79 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Template:Did_you_know_nominations/Jug_Bennett responseCode 3 200 