ykcqkaoqdcmkkknsycumkeoclssgimqczayctkjs length 5 83930 page 5227 Portuguese explorer This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. No cleanup reason has been specified. Please help improve this article if you can. (January 2012) (template removal help) Domingos Jorge Velho Domingos Jorge Velho by Benedito Calixto (1903) Born 1641 Santana de Parnaíba, Portuguese Colony of Brazil Died 1705 (aged 63–64) Piancó, Portuguese Colony of Brazil Occupation Bandeirante Domingos Jorge Velho (1641–1705) was a Portuguese bandeirante. He was born in Santana de Parnaíba, captaincy of São Paulo, to Francisco Jorge Velho and Francisca Gonçalves de Camargo. He was responsible for the repression of several indigenous nations in Bahia and especially Piauí, which he is reputed to have been the first colonist to explore. His greater fame, however, is due to his conquest of the Quilombo dos Palmares, in the hinterland of Alagoas, on behalf of João da Cunha Souto Maior, governor of Pernambuco. Velho accepted the assignment and, in 1694, with an army of amerindians and mamelucos, European Native American offspring, overran the fortified city of Macacos, on the Serra da Barriga mountain.[1] According to the bishop of Olinda at the time, he did not speak Portuguese fluently but rather the língua geral, a lingua franca based on Tupian languages spoken in Brazil at that time.[2] John Manuel Monteiro, a specialist on the subject, in Os Negros da Terra, explains that Velho not only spoke Portuguese but was indeed literate: "actually Domingos not only spoke but he also wrote in Portuguese, what would be highly unusual for a Tapuia [...] Domingos even wrote a letter to the Portuguese King, and his recognizable signature can be identified frequently in the civil registries of Santana de Parnaíba".[3] Velho is reputed to have had several amerindian concubines, but only married in old age. He died in Piancó, captaincy of Paraíba. His uncle of the same name was married to Izabel Pires de Monteiro; the Captain Salvador Jorge Velho and Simão Jorge Velho were born out of this union.[4] References[edit] ^ "Biografia de Domingos Jorge Velho". ^ RIBEIRO, Darcy. O Povo Brasileiro, Companhia de Bolso, fourth reprint, 2008 (2008). ^ Monteiro, John Manuel. Os Negros da Terra. São Paulo, Companhia das Letras, 1994. p. 164. ^ "Tit. Jorges Velhos". buratto.org. Archived from the original on 2017-10-12. Retrieved 2021-10-03. Further reading[edit] Franco, Francisco de Assis Carvalho, "Dicionário de Bandeirantes e Sertanistas do Brasil", Ed. São Paulo University, São Paulo, Ed Itatiaia, Belo Horizonte (1989) v t e Portuguese explorers Maritime In service of Prince Henry Afonso Gonçalves Baldaia Álvaro Fernandes Alvise Cadamosto Antão Gonçalves António de Noli Antoniotto Usodimare Bartolomeu Perestrelo Dinis Dias Diogo Afonso Diogo de Melo Coutinho Diogo de Silves Diogo de Teive Diogo Gomes Fernando de Castro Gil Eanes Gonçalo de Sintra Gonçalo Velho Cabral João de Trasto João Fernandes João Gonçalves Zarco Lançarote de Freitas Nuno Tristão Pedro de Sintra Tristão Vaz Teixeira Afonso de Albuquerque Álvaro Martins André Gonçalves António de Abreu António de Faria António de Saldanha António Galvão António Mota Bartolomeu Dias Cristóvão de Mendonça Cristóvão Jacques Diogo Cão Diogo da Rocha Diogo de Azambuja Diogo Dias Diogo Fernandes Pereira Diogo Lopes de Sequeira Diogo Rodrigues Diogo Soares Duarte Fernandes Duarte Pacheco Pereira Estêvão da Gama Fernão de Loronha Fernão do Pó Fernão Gomes Fernão Mendes Pinto Fernão Pires de Andrade Francisco Serrão Gaspar Corte-Real Gaspar de Lemos Gomes de Sequeira Gonçalo Álvares Gonçalo Coelho João Afonso do Estreito João Álvares Fagundes João da Gama João da Nova João de Santarém João Fernandes Lavrador João Grego João Infante João Serrão João Vaz Corte-Real Jorge Álvares Jorge de Menezes Lopes Gonçalves Lourenço de Almeida Miguel Corte-Real Nicolau Coelho Paulo da Gama Pedro Álvares Cabral Pedro Mascarenhas Pero Dias Pero Escobar Vasco da Gama Overland Africa Afonso de Paiva Alexandre de Serpa Pinto André Álvares de Almada Francisco Álvares Francisco Barreto Francisco de Lacerda Gonçalo da Silveira Hermenegildo Capelo Jerónimo Lobo José Alberto de Oliveira Anchieta José Sapateiro Lourenço Marques Paulo Dias de Novais Pero da Covilhã Roberto Ivens Sancho de Tovar Silva Porto Americas Alexandre Rodrigues Ferreira António Raposo Tavares Baltasar Fernandes Borba Gato Brás Cubas Diogo Álvares Correia Domingos Jorge Velho Duarte Coelho Martim Soares Moreno Pedro Teixeira Asia António da Madalena António de Andrade Bento de Góis Diogo Veloso Domingo Paes Estêvão Cacella Fernão Nunes Galeote Pereira João Cabral In foreign service Alberto del Canto Aleixo Garcia Antonio Díaz de Cardoso Estêvão Gomes Ferdinand Magellan Gaspar Castaño de Sosa George Ura Ginés de Mafra Jean Alfonse Juan Díaz de Solís Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo Luis de Carvajal y de la Cueva Luís Vaz de Torres Manuel de Mederos Ñuño Fernández Lobo Pedro Fernandes de Queirós Sebastião Rodrigues Soromenho Portuguese discoveries This article about the history of Brazil is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 54 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Domingos_Jorge_Velho responseCode 3 200 