ykjqqsykpedcaiygwqoinmceaqhctepsrmskckue page 7316 2023 massacre in Israel Holit massacre Part of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war Holit class=notpageimage| Site of the attack in Israel Native name הטבח בחולית Location Holit, Southern District, Israel Coordinates 31°13′48″N 34°19′36″E﻿ / ﻿31.23000°N 34.32667°E﻿ / 31.23000; 34.32667 Date 7 October 2023; 44 days ago (2023-10-07) Attack type Mass shooting, mass murder, war crime Deaths At least 13 Perpetrator Hamas v t e 2023 Israel–Hamas war Timeline Outline Military engagements Hamas attack on Israel Be'eri Re'im Sderot Sufa Zikim Israel–Lebanon border clashes Houthi involvement Taba and Nuweiba Israeli invasion of Gaza Beit Hanoun Gaza City Israeli incursions into the West Bank Jenin Tulkarm Attacks Re'im music festival Killing of Shani Louk Netiv HaAsara Alumim Be'eri Ein HaShlosha Holit Kfar Aza Kissufim Nahal Oz Nir Oz Nirim Nir Yitzhak Jabalia 31 October attack Osama bin Zaid school Al-Shati Hajji Tower Palestinians evacuating Gaza Al-Ahli Arab Hospital UNRWA school Church of Saint Porphyrius Al-Ansar Mosque Yakhini Al-Fakhoora school Al-Maghazi camp Al-Buraq school Al-Shifa Hospital Ambulance airstrike Sabra mosque See also Gaza humanitarian crisis Israeli blockade of Gaza War crimes Palestinian rocket attacks on Israel Wider regional conflict Attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq and Syria The Holit massacre was a massacre perpetrated by Hamas militants on 7 October 2023 in the kibbutz Holit in the Negev district of southern Israel, as part of the surprise attack on Israel. The attack took the lives of at least 11 kibbutz members and two migrant workers.[1] Among the casualties were at least two American citizens.[2] Background The kibbutz was established in 1977 in the Sinai and was transferred to the Negev as part of the 1982 Egypt–Israel peace treaty. The kibbutz had 84 members before the 2023 massacre. Massacre Main article: List of massacres during the 2023 Israel–Hamas war In the early morning of October 7th 2023, Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel, firing thousands of rockets. During this time, more than 1,500 Hamas militants crossed the border into Israel and launched attacks on Israeli towns and military bases.[3] Residents of the kibbutz say the attack on Holit started at around 8AM. Hamas militants moved from house to house, killing at least 11 civilians and injuring many more. On October 11th, four days after the attack, Hamas released a video alleging to show kibbutz member Avital Aladjem freed that very day by Hamas at Gaza's border along with her neighbor's two small children. Aladjem contradicted this claim and described how on the day of the attack itself, the abductors left them unsupervised inside Gaza, and how she managed to walk back to Holit, taking the two children with her. The Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) called the footage broadcast by Al Jazeera, who adopted the Hamas narrative, "propaganda" aimed at deflecting public scrutiny from the atrocities committed by the group.[4] See also Crime portal 2023 Israel–Hamas war Outline of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war List of massacres during the 2023 Israel–Hamas war Palestinian terrorism Moshe Dayan's eulogy for Ro'i Rothberg List of massacres in Israel Hayim Katsman, one of the Israelis killed in the massacre References ^ צורי, מתן (8 October 2023). "פורסמו שמותיהם של נרצחי קיבוץ חולית". Ynet (in Hebrew). Archived from the original on 15 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023. ^ Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Yazbek, Hiba; Gavrielov, Nadav (10 October 2023). "What We Know About the Americans Who Were Missing or Killed". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 17 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023. ^ Fabian, Emanuel. "Bodies of around 1,500 dead terrorists in Israel — report". www.timesofisrael.com. Archived from the original on 14 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023. ^ ToI Staff; Steinberg, Jessica. "IDF says Hamas video purporting to show 3 hostages being released is propaganda". www.timesofisrael.com. Archived from the original on 17 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023. v t e 2023 Israel–Hamas war Timeline Outline Battles Hamas attack on Israel Re'im Sderot Sufa Zikim Israeli invasion of Gaza Beit Hanoun Gaza City Israel–Lebanon border clashes Israeli incursions into the West Bank Jenin incursion Tulkarm incursion 7 October massacres Re'im music festival Netiv HaAsara Alumim Be'eri Ein HaShlosha Holit Kfar Aza Kissufim Nahal Oz Nir Oz Nirim Yakhini Nir Yitzhak Attacks Health facilities Al-Ahli Arab Hospital explosion reactions Al-Shifa Hospital siege ambulance airstrike Refugee camps Jabalia airstrikes 31 October Al-Shati airstrike Al-Maghazi refugee camp airstrike Religious structures Church of Saint Porphyrius airstrike Al-Ansar Mosque airstrike Sabra mosque airstrike Schools UNRWA school airstrike Al-Fakhoora school airstrike Osama bin Zaid school airstrike Al-Buraq school airstrike Al-Falah School airstrike Others Hajji Tower airstrike Palestinians evacuating Gaza City General topics Kidnappings Israeli blockade of Gaza Palestinian rocket attacks Palestinian tunnel warfare anti-tunnel barrier Gaza–Israel conflict Iran–Israel proxy conflict Use of human shields by Hamas Houthi involvement Taba and Nuweiba drone attacks Women Effects Israeli war cabinet‎ Economic impact Evacuations Operation Ajay Northern Gaza Humanitarian crisis Mass arrests Media coverage Disinformation Pallywood War crimes Reactions Cancellation of the 2023 MTV EMA Denial of Hamas atrocities Diplomatic impact Islamic Summit Conference Kidnapped from Israel UNGAR ES-10/21 Security Council Resolution 2712 US support for Israel Arab Islamic summit Discrimination Antisemitism Riots in the North Caucasus Anti-Palestinianism Islamophobia Violent incidents Killing of Wadea al-Fayoume Killing of Paul Kessler Protests United States Writers Against the War on Gaza National March on Washington: Free Palestine March for Israel DNC protests Casualties Israel Security forces Alim Abdallah Jayar Davidov Eli Ginsberg Salman Habaka Roi Levy Izhar Peled Yonatan Steinberg Civilians Lior Asulin Hayim Katsman Ofir Libstein Shani Louk Aner Shapira Vivian Silver Yahav Winner Palestine Fighters Fouad Abu Butihan [ar] Jihad Shehadeh [ar] Tulkarm Battalion [ar] Rafat Abu Hilal Popular Resistance Hamas Omar Daraghmeh Abdul Fatah Dukhan Mohammed Dababish Ahmed Ghandour Osama Mazini Jihad Muheisen Murad Abu Murad Ayman Nofal Jamila al-Shanti Ali Al Qadi Civilians Ahmad Bahar Rashid Dabour [ar] Omar Ferwana Hiba Abu Nada Ali Nasman Ibrahim al-Astal Omar Abu Shawish Wael Al Zard Mohamed al-Dalou Mohammed Shabir Hassan Zuaiter Ibrahim Qusaya Hammam Alloh Heba Zaqout Journalists Issam Abdallah Yaniv Zohar Roy Edan Violence Deaths Related people Oded Lifshitz [he] Wael Al-Dahdouh Plestia Alaqad Nimrod Aloni Noa Argamani Hersh Goldberg-Polin Motaz Azaiza Bisan Owda Inbal Rabin-Lieberman Amir Tibon Other topics Abducted and Missing Families Forum Al Qarara Cultural Museum Al-Saqqa House [ar] Bearing Witness "Policy paper: Options for a policy regarding Gaza's civilian population" 2023 attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq and Syria Casualties of Israeli attacks on the Gaza Strip Category This terrorism-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 48 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Holit_massacre responseCode 3 200 