yktetmbobsbswqvcfgfcskdgxigcvswqagoiyedi length 6 288959 page 10002 Policy on page protection See also: Wikipedia:Requests for page protection and Wikipedia:Lists of protected pages "WP:PP" and "WP:PROTECT" redirect here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:Perennial proposals, Wikipedia:WikiProject Parliamentary Procedure, Wikipedia:Party and person, Wikipedia:Child protection, and Wikipedia:WikiProject Protected areas. This page documents an English Wikipedia policy. It describes a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus. Shortcuts WP:PP WP:PROTECT This page in a nutshell: While Wikipedia strives to be as open as possible, sometimes it is necessary to limit editing of certain pages in order to prevent vandalism, edit warring, or other disruptive edits. Are you in the right place? This page documents the protection policy on Wikipedia. If you are trying to... Then... make a request to protect or unprotect a page see Wikipedia:Requests for page protection make a request to edit a page see Wikipedia:Edit requests obtain user rights to edit protected pages request user rights report a user for persistent vandalism or spam file a vandalism report report a user for edit warring or violating revert restrictions open an edit warring report Enforcement policies Administrators Banning policy Blocking policy Protection policy v t e Protection icons Icon Mode Pending changes protected Whitelock Semi-protected Silverlock Extended confirmed protected Bluelock Template-protected Pinklock Fully protected Goldlock Interface protected Redlock Move protected Greenlock Create protected Skybluelock Upload protected Purplelock Cascade protected Turquoiselock Protected by Office Blacklock In some circumstances, pages may need to be protected from modification by certain groups of editors. Pages are protected when a specific damaging event has been identified that cannot be prevented through other means such as a block. Otherwise, Wikipedia is built on the principle that anyone can edit it, and it therefore aims to have as many of its pages as possible open for public editing so that anyone can add material and correct errors. This policy states in detail the protection types and procedures for page protection and unprotection and when each protection should and should not be applied. Protection is a technical restriction applied only by administrators, although any user may request protection. Protection can be indefinite or expire after a specified time. The various levels of protection are detailed below, and they can be applied to the page edit, page move, page create, and file upload actions. Even when a page is protected from editing, the source code (wikitext) of the page can still be viewed and copied by anyone. A protected page is marked at its top right by a padlock icon, usually added by the {{pp-protected}} template. Preemptive protection Shortcuts WP:NO-PREEMPT WP:PREEMPTIVE Applying page protection as a preemptive measure is contrary to the open nature of Wikipedia and is generally not allowed if applied solely for these reasons. However, brief periods of an appropriate and reasonable protection level are allowed in situations where blatant vandalism, disruption, or abuse is occurring by multiple users and at a level of frequency that requires its use in order to stop it. The duration of the protection should be set as short as possible, and the protection level should be set to the lowest restriction needed in order to stop the disruption while still allowing productive editors to make changes. Exceptions are largely confined to the Main Page, which is fully protected (along with its templates and images), and Today's Featured Article, which is semi-protected. Requesting protection Protection types Shortcut WP:PPLIST The following protection types are available to administrators for protecting different actions to pages: Edit protection protects the page from being edited. Move protection protects the page from being moved or renamed. Creation protection prevents a page (normally a previously deleted one) from being created (also known as "salting"). Upload protection prevents new versions of a file from being uploaded, but it does not prevent editing of the file's description page (unless edit protection is applied). Protection levels The following protection levels are available to administrators for adding protection to the different actions to pages: Pending changes protection (only available for edit protection) requires any edits made to the page by unregistered users and accounts that are not confirmed to be approved by a pending changes reviewer or an administrator before the changes become visible to readers who are not logged in. Semi-protection prevents the action by unregistered users and users with accounts that are not confirmed. Extended confirmed protection, also known as 30/500 protection, prevents the action if the user's account has not yet reached at least 30 days of tenure, and has not made at least 500 edits on the English Wikipedia. In most cases, it should not be a protection level of first resort, and should be used where semi-protection has proven to be ineffective. Activation or application of this protection level is logged at the Administrators' noticeboard. Template protection prevents the action by everyone except template editors and administrators (who have this right as part of their toolset). Full protection prevents the action by everyone except administrators. Submitting requests Any of the above protections can be requested at Wikipedia:Requests for page protection. Changes to a protected page should be proposed on the corresponding talk page, and then (if necessary) requested by adding an edit request. From there, if the requested changes are uncontroversial or if there is consensus for them, the changes can be carried out by a user who can edit the page. Except in the case of office actions (see below), Arbitration Committee remedies, or pages in the MediaWiki namespace (see below), administrators may unprotect a page if the reason for its protection no longer applies, a reasonable period has elapsed, and there is no consensus that continued protection is necessary. Editors desiring the unprotection of a page should, in the first instance, ask the administrator who applied the protection unless the administrator is inactive or no longer an administrator; thereafter, requests can be made at Requests for unprotection. Note that such requests will normally be declined if the protecting administrator is active and was not consulted first. A log of protections and unprotections is available at Special:Log/protect. Comparison table Interaction of Wikipedia user groups and page protection levels Unregistered or newly registered Confirmed or autoconfirmed Extended confirmed Template editor Admin Interface admin Appropriate for No protection Normal editing The vast majority of pages. This is the default protection level. Pending changes All users can edit Edits by unregistered or new editors (and any subsequent edits by anyone) are hidden from readers who are not logged in, until reviewed by a pending changes reviewer or admin. Logged-in editors see all edits, whether accepted or not. Infrequently edited pages with high levels of vandalism, BLP violations, edit-warring, or other disruption from unregistered and new users. Semi Cannot edit Normal editing Pages that have been persistently vandalized by anonymous and registered users. Some highly visible templates and modules. Extended confirmed Cannot edit Normal editing[a] Specific topic areas authorized by ArbCom, pages where semi-protection has failed, or high-risk templates where template protection would be too restrictive. Template Cannot edit Normal editing High-risk or very-frequently used templates and modules. Some high-risk pages outside of template space. Full Cannot edit Normal editing Pages with persistent disruption from extended confirmed accounts. Critical templates and modules. Interface Cannot edit Normal editing Scripts, stylesheets, and similar objects central to operation of the site or that are in other editors' user spaces. ^ In order to edit through extended confirmed protection, a template editor must also be extended confirmed, but in practice this is almost always the case. Other modes of protection: Create protection Move protection Upload protection Office protection Cascade protection view talk edit Protection levels Each of these levels is explained in the context of edit protection, but each can be applied to other types of protection except for pending changes. Pending changes protection Further information: Wikipedia:Pending changes Shortcuts WP:PCPP WP:WHITELOCK Pending changes protection allows unregistered and new users to edit pages, while keeping their edits hidden from most readers (specifically, unregistered editors – the vast majority of visitors to Wikipedia articles) until those changes are accepted by a pending changes reviewer. An alternative to semi-protection, it is used to suppress vandalism and certain other persistent problems while allowing all users to continue to submit edits. Pending changes is technically implemented as a separate option, with its own duration, and it yields to other edit protection levels in cases of overlap. When a page under pending changes protection is edited by an unregistered (IP addresses) editor or a new user, the edit is not directly visible to the majority of Wikipedia readers, until it is reviewed and accepted by an editor with the pending changes reviewer right. When a page under pending changes protection is edited by an autoconfirmed user, the edit will be immediately visible to Wikipedia readers, unless there are pending edits waiting to be reviewed. Pending changes are visible in the page history, where they are marked as pending review. Readers who are not logged in (the vast majority of readers) are shown the latest accepted version of the page; logg contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 61 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Protection_policy responseCode 3 200 