yonsdakcggqkngskaiymyqumkengegqqzmdcwaxo length 6 105300 page 10168 Portal Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Vital articles Featured content Good articles Indices A–Z index Reference Culture Geography Health History Human activities Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Wikipedia's contents: Religion and belief systems edit · watch Religion is the adherence to codified beliefs and rituals that generally involve a faith in a spiritual nature and a study of inherited ancestral traditions, knowledge and wisdom related to understanding human life. The term "religion" refers to both the personal practices related to faith as well as to the larger shared systems of belief. A belief system can refer to a religion or a world view. A world view (or worldview) is a term calqued from the German word Weltanschauung ([ˈvɛlt.ʔanˌʃaʊ.ʊŋ]ⓘ) Welt is the German word for 'world,' and Anschauung is the German word for 'view' or 'outlook'. It is a concept fundamental to German philosophy and epistemology and refers to a wide world perception. Additionally, it refers to the framework of ideas and beliefs through which an individual interprets the world and interacts in it. The Religion Portal More about Religion and Belief systems... Religion and belief systems Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Overviews (see for all subject areas) edit · watch Main article: Religion See also: Relationship between religion and science Allah Belief Biblical inspiration Buddha Confucius Deity Demon Devil Exorcism Heresy Inspiration Faith God Jesus Holy Spirit Morality Mormon Mythology Occult Prayer Prophecy Revelation Ritual Sin Supernatural Virtue Belief Systems Acosmism Agnosticism Animism Antitheism Atheism Binitarianism Deism Determinism Duotheism Esotericism Eutheism and dystheism Freethought Gnosticism Henotheism Humanism Interfaith Ignosticism Kathenotheism Monism Mormon Monotheism Monolatrism Mysticism Neopaganism New Age Nondualism Nontheism Objectivism Pandeism Panentheism Pantheism Pastafarianism Polydeism Polytheism Secular Skepticism Spiritualism Spirituality Theism Theopanism Theosophy Transcendentalism Transtheism Trinitarianism Unitarianism Major beliefs of the world Antireligion Ayyavazhi Baháʼí Faith Buddhism Cao Dai Chinese folk religion Christianity Confucianism Diasporic Falun Gong Hellenismos Hinduism Irreligious Islam Jainism Judaism Neopaganism Polytheistic reconstructionism Rastafari Scientology Sikhism Spiritism Shinto Taoism Tenrikyo The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Unitarian Universalism Zoroastrianism See also: Criticism of religion Outlines (see for all subject areas) edit · watch Religion – collection of cultural systems, belief systems, and worldviews that establishes symbols that relate humanity to spirituality and sometimes to moral values. World's religions: Abrahamic religions: Judaism – "religion, philosophy, and way of life" of the Jewish people. Originating in the Hebrew Bible (also known as the Tanach) and explored in later texts such as the Talmud, it is considered by religious Jews to be the expression of the covenantal relationship God developed with the Children of Israel. Jewish law – the collective body of Jewish religious laws derived from the Written and Oral Torah. Christianity – monotheistic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus as presented in canonical gospels and other New Testament writings. Jesus – the founder of Christianity Bible – the holy text of Christianity Catholicism – Catholicism is the largest denomination of Christianity. It holds that its Bishops are the successors of the Apostles of Jesus and its Pope the successor of St Peter, and Mary the mother of Jesus is venerated. The term Catholicism broadly denotes the varying body of traditions, nations, demographics and behaviours generally subscribed to the Faith. Catholic canon law Catholic ecumenical councils Protestantism – Protestantism is a broad term, usually used for Christians who are not of the Catholic, Anglican, or Eastern Churches. However, some consider Anglicanism to be Protestant, and some consider Radical Reformism not to be Protestant. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints – The largest denomination of the Latter Day Saint movement, an American restorationist movement. Members are known as "Mormons". Book of Mormon – the earliest distinctive scripture of the Latter Day Saint movement. Joseph Smith – the founding Prophet of the Latter Day Saint movement. Islam – monotheistic religion articulated by the Quran, a text considered by its adherents to be the verbatim word of one God, Allah (Arabic: الله Allāh), and by the teachings and normative example (called the Sunnah and composed of Hadith) of Muhammad, considered by them to be the last prophet of Allah. Bábism – Predecessor of the Baháʼí Faith founded in 1844 by the Báb (b. ʻAli Muhammad), an Iranian merchant turned prophet who taught that there is one incomprehensible God who manifests his will in an unending series of Manifestations of God. Baháʼí Faith – a monotheistic religion founded by Baháʼu'lláh in the 19th century, proclaims Spiritual unity of mankind East Asian religions: Taoism – a religious and philosophical tradition of Chinese origin with an emphasis on living in harmony with, and in accordance to the natural flow or cosmic structural order of the universe commonly referred to as the Tao. The Tao Te Ching, along with the Zhuangzi, is a fundamental text for both philosophical and religious Taoism. Laozi is traditionally regarded as one of the founders of Taoism and is closely associated in this context with "original" or "primordial" Taoism. Indian religions: Buddhism – religion and philosophy encompassing a variety of traditions, beliefs and practices, largely based on teachings attributed to Siddhartha Gautama, commonly known as the Buddha (Pāli/Sanskrit "the awakened one"). Hinduism – predominant and indigenous religious tradition), amongst many other expressions. Ayyavazhi – Henotheistic belief that originated in South India. It is cited as an independent monistic religion by several newspapers, government reports and academic researchers. In Indian censuses, however, the majority of its followers declare themselves as Hindus. Therefore, Ayyavazhi is also considered a Hindu denomination. Sikhism – monotheistic religion founded during the 15th century in the Punjab region, on the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev Ji and ten successive Sikh Gurus (the last teaching being the holy scripture Guru Granth Sahib Ji). Contemporary Paganism – a contemporary set of beliefs modelled on the ancient pagan religions (usually of Europe or the Near East). Religious debates: Creation–evolution controversy – recurring theological and cultural-political dispute about the origins of the Earth, humanity, life, and the universe, between the proponents of various forms of abiogenesis, and proponents of the various forms of special creation. In both cases, there is limited scientific support for any origin of life hypothesis. The dispute particularly involves the field of evolutionary biology, but also the fields of geology, palaeontology, thermodynamics, nuclear physics and cosmology. Religious issues: Theology – systematic and rational study of religion and its influences and of the nature of religious truths, or the learned profession acquired by completing specialized training in religious studies, usually at a university or school of divinity or seminary. Christian theology – enterprise to construct a coherent system of Christian belief and practice based primarily upon the texts of the Old Testament and the New Testament as well as the historic traditions of the faithful. Christian theologians use biblical exegesis, rational analysis, and argument to clarify, examine, understand, explicate, critique, defend or promote Christianity. Death – end of physical life Irreligion – absence of religious belief, or indifference or hostility to religion, or active rejection of religious traditions. Atheism – rejection of belief in the existence of deities. In a narrower sense, atheism is specifically the position that there are no deities. Most inclusively, atheism is simply the absence of belief that any deities exist. Atheism is contrasted with theism, which in its most general form is the belief that at least one deity exists. Secular humanism – embraces human reason, ethics, and justice while specifically rejecting religious dogma, supernaturalism, pseudoscience or superstition as the basis of morality and decision-making. Spirituality – can refer to an ultimate or an alleged immaterial reality; an inner path enabling a person to discover the essence of their being; or the "deepest values and meanings by which people live." Lists (see for all subject areas) edit · watch Major religious groups • Religions and spiritual traditions Angels • Ayyavazhi • Bible stories • Biblical names • Cathedrals • Christian denominations • Deities • Demons • Indigetes (Roman gods & goddesses) • Founders • Greek mythological characters • Hinduism • Jesus • Dramatic portrayals of Jesus Christ • People claimed to be Jesus • Languages by year of first Bible translation • Monasteries dissolved by Henry VIII of England • Mormonism • Biblical nameless • Patriarchs of Antioch • Patriarchs of Constantinople • Popes • Sexually active popes • Saints • 613 Mitzvot • Israelites Portals (see for all subject areas) edit · watch Religion Abrahamic religions Bible Christianity (Calvinism Catholic Church Evangelical Christianity Latter Day Saint movement Methodism) Islam Judaism Saints Dharmic religions Hinduism Traditional religions Traditional African religions Other Myths Glossaries (see for all subject areas) edit · watch Ancient Roman religion • Buddhism • Christianity (Catholic Church) • Hinduism • Islam • Judaism • New Thought • Shinto • Sikhism • Spirituality Categories (see for all subject areas) edit · watch Main categories: Religion and Belief Allah Bible Buddhas Deit contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 80 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents/Religion_and_belief_systems responseCode 3 200 