zawqqefogiycqewibgacvebqmkvopkdevexgcmyi page 10027 Fundamental legal document of Argentina, written in 1853 and amended several times since Politics of Argentina Executive President (List) :Alberto Fernández Vice President :Cristina Fernández de Kirchner Ministries Legislative Senate (List) Chamber of Deputies (List) Judiciary Supreme Court Attorney General Council of Magistracy of the Nation Law Constitution Human rights LGBT rights Administrative divisions Provinces Governors Legislatures Departments Recent elections Presidential: 2011 2015 2019 2023 Legislative: 2015 2017 2019 2021 Political parties Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs : Minister: Santiago Cafiero (list) Diplomatic missions of / in Argentina Nationality law Passport Visa requirements Visa policy Argentina portal Other countries v t e The Constitution of the Argentine Nation (Spanish: Constitución de la Nación Argentina) is the basic governing document of Argentina, and the primary source of existing law in Argentina. Its first version was written in 1853 by a constitutional assembly which gathered in Santa Fe; the doctrinal basis was taken in part from the United States Constitution. It was then reformed in 1860, 1866, 1898, 1949, 1957 (which mainly repealed the 1949 reform), and the current version is the reformed text of 1994. It's the seventh oldest national constitution currently in effect being ratified on May 1, 1853. The Argentine Constitution consists of a preamble and two normative parts: Preamble First part: Declarations, Rights and Guarantees (arts. 1-43) Second part: Authorities of the Nation (arts. 44–129). The following international human rights instruments —treaties and declarations— also have constitutional status by virtue of article 75 paragraph 22: American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man[1] Universal Declaration of Human Rights[1] American Convention on Human Rights[1] International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights[1] International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights[1] Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights[1] Genocide Convention[1] International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination[1] Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women[1] United Nations Convention against Torture[1] Convention on the Rights of the Child[1] Inter-American Convention on Forced Disappearance of Persons[2] Convention on the Non-Applicability of Statutory Limitations to War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity[3] Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities[4] History[edit] Juan Bautista Alberdi, the legal scholar who drafted the 1853 Constitution. The first attempt to divide political power in Argentina was during the government created after the May Revolution (Spanish: Revolución de Mayo): the Primera Junta could not create new taxes without the Cabildo's authorization. Many revolutionary leaders, led by Mariano Moreno, wanted to declare independence immediately and create a constitution in order to build an independent state. In October 1811, the Junta Grande, which succeeded the Primera Junta, enacted the Regulation for the Division of Power, but it was not accepted by the executive power. Nevertheless, the freedom of press and the Decree on Individual Security were accepted by November. In 1813, the General Constitutional Assembly was intended to declare a constitution but it could only declare the freedom for slaves' sons. In 1819 and 1826 were declared two constitutions that eventually failed because of the disagreement between Federalists and Unitarians. Many other constitutional pacts existed between 1820 and 1853 (when the current Argentine Constitution was enacted). The most important of them are: the Treaty of Pilar (1820), the Treaty of the Cuadrilátero (1822), the Federal Pact (1831), the Palermo Protocol (1852), and the Treaty of San Nicolás (1852). The Federal Pact urged all the provinces to call a General Federal Congress, however this would have limited Juan Manuel de Rosas's power who was the most powerful province governor, so the Congress was never called. When Rosas was defeated, in 1852, the Treaty of San Nicolás finally called the Constitutional Congress that, in Santa Fe, on May 1, 1853, swore to make effective the federal Constitution. Consequently, the Province of Buenos Aires left the Argentine Confederation until 1859. Reforms to the 1853 Constitution[edit] The first constitutional amendment to the original 1853 text occurred in 1860 after Buenos Aires rejoined the Argentine Confederation. It consisted of changes to many of the original articles. One of the major changes was the renaming of the state: according to the reform, the country would be officially named República Argentina ("Argentine Republic") and, for legal purposes, Nación Argentina ("Argentine Nation"), replacing the older "Argentine Confederation" in all articles of the constitution. Another important inclusion was the constitutional recognition of Buenos Aires' exclusive rights guaranteed by the Treaty of San Nicolás. The next reform occurred in 1866 and established that exportation and importation taxes would be destined to the National Treasury indefinitely, no longer until 1866 as the 1860 reform had established. In 1898, another minor constitutional amendment was approved. It allowed a more flexible ratio for proportional apportionment in the Chamber of Deputies and set the number of ministries to eight. During Juan Domingo Perón's government, the Argentine Constitution of 1949 was successfully passed, which constituted a major revision. Its goal was to modernize and adapt the text to the twentieth century's concepts of democracy, for example, adding a list of social rights which included better working conditions for the working class, the right to good education, etc. This also was included in the principles stated in the preamble. It also permitted the indefinite reelection of the president. During the military regime known as the Revolución Libertadora that had deposed Perón's government in 1955, in 1957 and before the elections that was to be held in 1958, a Constitutional Convention was elected to reform the constitution. This reform does not include 1949's, implicitly annulling it so the text was based on the 1898 one. The only changes done were to include a summary of Perón's social articles known as article 14 bis (existing currently) and to establish the necessity to have a Labour and Social Security Code. In 1972, a "Constitutional Amendment" carried out by the military government led by General Alejandro A. Lanusse reformed the 1957 text. This had to last until 1977 but its application could be extended until 1981 if no Constitutional Convention in 1976 decided either to accept it or reject it definitively. This amendment was not fully applied by the democratic government of Perón in his third term nor by his wife Isabel Perón acting as president after his death. Some changes were related to the size of Senate and one-term reelection of president and vice-president. It also reduced presidential, senatorial and deputies' terms all to four years. The last (and current) version of the Argentine Constitution was carried out by Carlos Saúl Menem in 1994. It included many of the modifications from the 1972 "amendment" as the growth of the Senate size (three per Province), one-term consecutive presidential reelection and reduction of its term to four years. It also made Buenos Aires City an autonomous entity with its own authorities. Other changes were done to ensure a softer presidentialist regime, the inclusion of a new chapter into the Bill of Rights related to politics, health and environment, and also the adoption of a much faster legislative procedure for creating laws. In addition, the requirement that the President or Vice President of the Republic belong to the Roman Catholic faith was also abolished.[5] Divisions[edit] The Argentine Constitution has four major division types; Parts, Titles, Divisions and Chapters, though these need not be present all the time. For example, the First Part is divided into Chapters but not into Titles nor Sections. The scheme of the Constitution is the following: Preamble First Part (43 sections) First Chapter Declarations, rights and guarantees (35 sections) Second Chapter New rights and guarantees (8 sections) Second Part Authorities of the Nation (86 sections) First Title Federal Government (77 sections) First Division Of the Legislative Power (43 sections, 42 + 1 separated) First Chapter Of the Chamber of Deputies (9 sections) Second Chapter Of the Senate (9 sections) Third Chapter Common dispositions to both Chambers (12 sections) Fourth Chapter Attributions of the Congress (2 sections, of which one is sub-divided 32 times) Fifth Chapter Of the formation of Laws (8 sections) Sixth Chapter Of the General Audit of the Nation (1 section) Seventh Chapter Of the Ombudsman (1 section) Second Division Of the Executive Power (21 sections) First Chapter Of its nature and duration (7 sections) Second Chapter Of the way and time of the election of the President and Third Chapter Attributions of the Executive Power (1 section sub-divided 20 times) Fourth Chapter Of the ministers (8 sections, of which one is sub-divided 13 times) Third Division Of the Judicial Power (12 sections) First Chapter Of its nature and duration (8 sections) Second Chapter Attributions of the Judicial Power (4 sections) Fourth Section Of the Public Ministry (1 section) Second Title Provincial Governments (9 sections) Transitorial Provisions Preamble[edit] "Nos los Representantes del Pueblo de la Nación Argentina …" The Preamble of the Argentine Constitution states or implies, in short terms, a number of starting points for the conception of the nation, such as a representative government. It acknowledges previous agreements to create a constitution (in order to legitimize the gathering of the Assembly). Finally, it lays the foundations for contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 59 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Constitution_of_Argentina responseCode 3 200 