zaxmngrqzgigzmoqmemelqkickfkqmiimmaggaue length 6 590000 page 10020 Section of the village pump where new ideas are discussed Policy Technical Proposals Idea lab WMF Miscellaneous Table of contents First discussion End of page New post Shortcuts WP:VPI WP:VPIL The idea lab section of the village pump is a place where new ideas or suggestions on general Wikipedia issues can be incubated, for later submission for consensus discussion at Village pump (proposals). Try to be creative and positive when commenting on ideas. Before creating a new section, note: Discussions of technical issues belong at Village pump (technical). Discussions of policy belong at Village pump (policy). If you're ready to make a concrete proposal and determine whether it has consensus, go to the Village pump (proposals). Proposals worked out here can be brought there. Before commenting, note: This page is not for consensus polling. Stalwart "Oppose" and "Support" comments generally have no place here. Instead, discuss ideas and suggest variations on them. Wondering whether someone already had this idea? Search the archives below, and look through Wikipedia:Perennial proposals. Discussions are automatically archived after remaining inactive for two weeks. « Archives, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53 Centralized discussion Nominations for the Arbitration Committee elections Splitting close reviews from the Administrators' Noticeboard Requiring disclosure for admin paid advising For a listing of ongoing discussions, see the dashboard. view edit history watch archive talk purge Collaborating with other encyclopedias such as Britannica[edit] Instead of Wikipedia just dominating what's stopping you guys from collaborating with other encyclopedias to share/pool knowledge or help each other out in some other way? Americanfreedom (talk) 15:27, 27 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] We collaborate by default by licensing our content permissively: Wikipedia:Reusing_Wikipedia_content. Other encyclopedias are generally free to use Wikipedia content within the terms of that license. If the other encyclopedias were to return the favour, we could do likewise. Barnards.tar.gz (talk) 15:42, 27 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Americanfreedom, Encyclopædia Britannica is a commercial enterprise. They probably wouldn't consider licensing their content freely to be compatible with their business model. Wikipedia requires content to be freely licensed. Wikipedia can technically borrow text from some freely licensed projects like Fandom (website). Unfortunately there's rarely any site with text that can really be used on Wikipedia without significant editing, at which point it's often easier to just start from scratch. — Alexis Jazz (talk or ping me) 01:47, 28 October 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Third party vendors already perform the function of pooling knowledge from available sources, including encyclopedias. AI chatbot-powered search engines, for example. They have the potential to leap-frog encyclopedias within as little as 5 years. See https://www.perplexity.ai/ — The Transhumanist 21:14, 2 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Rather minor point, but Britannica has for years been using one photo or another that I uploaded to Commons.[1] Donald Albury 00:09, 7 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] They played around with the color balance a little, looks like. [2] [3] —Cryptic 00:24, 7 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Which they are allowed to do, per the license. :) Donald Albury 14:59, 7 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Well, yes, if they credited you, and licensed their derivative work the same. Which I see no evidence of anywhere. —Cryptic 01:55, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Cryptic, it is credited, but you have to click the image to see the large version and uncollapse the description. There's no link to the original though. They also refer to the GFDL there, so I guess that's the license for the derivative as well. Though such a minor adjustment may well not be eligible for copyright protection depending on your jurisdiction, so I doubt it would legally be considered a derivative work. — Alexis Jazz (talk or ping me) 02:10, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Clicking the image in the article without javascript enabled takes you directly to the full-size version, with no hint that attribution or licensing information was omitted; and the derivative work I was concerned about is the article. Besides which, GFDL 1.2 - now that we can see that's the license they chose as the basis for reuse - requires preserving copyright notices, including a history of modifications and who made them, and a notice, in a specific form, that grants permission for reuse, none of which is done even for just the image itself. —Cryptic 03:14, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Cryptic, well there's two ways to look at this. Creative Commons (but they're not using the CC license, which makes me wonder for how long they've been using that image - before 2010?) requires attribution "reasonable to the medium". I think the requirement for a browser that supports JavaScript is reasonable as all major browsers support that by default. Requiring something obscure or obsolete (e.g. Microsoft Silverlight) would not be reasonable. But as I said, there's no link to the original which CC requires if it's reasonable to the medium, and it certainly would be reasonable for a website. the derivative work I was concerned about is the article. That's actually not how a "derivative work" works, but I think I've been similarly confused in the past. The photo and the article are two separate works, they can exist independent from each other. A news article can use a photo with a CC BY-SA license without the need to freely license the article text. But if they make a derivative work, for example by moving people within the image around using photoshop, the derivative would have to be freely licensed. The other way to look at it is simply this: they're using the GFDL license and GFDL is teh suck because it's so hard to comply with. — Alexis Jazz (talk or ping me) 05:08, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] As for how long Britannica has been using that image, I only know that a few years ago they were using a different image that I had uploaded to Commons. The Wayback Machine indicates that the current photo has been used in that article since it was first archived in 2015, but I remember another photo I had uploaded to Commons being used in the article, I just didn't think it had been that long since I saw it there. Anyway, as the copyright holder of the image, I'm not going to bust Britannica's chops over technicalities about how the licensing is presented. Donald Albury 16:03, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Donald Albury, I'd guess Britannica changed the URL scheme in 2015. If you can figure out what the URL for a Britannica article used to look like you may be able to find it. Not really important, but might explain why there's no archive of the article with the other photo. — Alexis Jazz (talk or ping me) 17:16, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Yeah, not a big deal. Oh, the photos were uploaded in 2007 under the GNU 1.2, which appears above the CCA licenses on the pages in Commons, which explains why Britannica is using the GNU license. It is one of the small pleasures in my life that photos I took with a point-and-shoot digital camera 16 years ago are still being used in both WP and EB. Donald Albury 18:43, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] @Americanfreedom: Encyclopedia Britannica is tiny compared to Wikipedia: see Wikipedia:Size of Wikipedia. We have hundreds of thousands of contributors, they have a few hundred. Yes, they are well respected for a good reason, and yes we benefited greatly from their older (i.e., public domain) editions in our early years, but by now we have little to gain from them. They are free to consult WP, and even directly use our material (with attribution). We are free to consult EB, but we cannot directly use their material, and we need to find the prpper references, i.e., the ones they used. This arms-length "collaboration" works well enough. By many measures, WP is a "better" encyclopedia than EB. Do you have a suggestion for how we could better collaborate? -Arch dude (talk) 20:23, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Wikipedia Truth-O-Meter[edit] I think people have suggested this before but maybe we have a personality-test style rating scale on each article (1-5) to see how true an article is. It would go False, Slightly True, Half True, Mostly True, True. The result is displayed as a bar graph. I know there's problems with this (bots, spam, people might vote straight away, e.c.t) but with enough polishing out we might have a good system. Maybe we could have a citation system like this too (same scale but majority is displayed) to show which ones are good and which ones might need to be replaced. 99.226.2.176 (talk) 12:57, 2 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] How do you define what is true and who would how "true" the article is? The essays at WP:TRUTH and WP:IKNOWITSTRUE might be applicable. RudolfRed (talk) 14:49, 2 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] This would be way too easy to abuse. QuicoleJR (talk) 17:03, 2 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] So now we also have to define truth? Way too much to ask of volunteers. Edward-Woodrow • talk 20:08, 4 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] We work on the basis of making all articles as true as we can. This sounds like a more agressive version of a POV tag, or some sort of social media "I like this" thing. Our problems are I think mostly about particular statements or sections rather than whole articles. I don't see this working. Johnbod (talk) 02:47, 8 November 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply] Wikipedia articles are supposed to be verifiable from reliable sources; absolute truth is not a philosophical criterion. (Defining reliable sources gets murky though.) To your point though, the most common inaccuracy I see in articles is failed verification of cited material -- for at least  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 67 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Village_pump_(idea_lab) responseCode 3 200 