zcuowesisayakmoamizmpsdklqqssankvoommcgc page 2992 Possibly living people, missing people, and dead people are not included here, including the recently deceased; for which see Category:2023 deaths and preceding categories listing deaths in 2022, 2021, 2020, 2019, etc. (see Category:Deaths by year). Category:Living people at Wikipedia's sister projects Media from Commons Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Resources from Wikiversity Data from Wikidata Shortcuts CAT:LP CAT:LIVE This category is for articles structured as biographical entries for living individuals. Purpose: Because living persons may suffer personal harm from inappropriate information, we should watch their articles carefully. By adding an article to this category, it marks them with a notice about sources whenever someone tries to edit them, to remind them of WP:BLP (biographies of living persons) policy that these articles must maintain a neutral point of view, maintain factual accuracy, and be properly sourced. Recent changes to these articles are listed on Special:RecentChangesLinked/Category:Living people. Organization: This category should not be sub-categorized. Entries are generally sorted by family name. Maintenance: Individuals of advanced age (over 90), for whom there has been no new documentation in the last ten years, may be removed from this category and transferred to Category:Possibly living people. Errata: Per WP:BDP, any individual born before 1908 whose living status remains undetermined should have this category replaced with Category:Year of death missing (the same application should be followed for individuals in Category:Possibly living people and those in Category:Missing people who had not been heretofore declared legally dead). Related categories Category:Year of birth missing (living people) / Category:Year of birth unknown Category:Date of birth missing (living people) / Category:Date of birth unknown Category:Place of birth missing (living people) / Category:Place of birth unknown Category:Year of death missing / Category:Year of death unknown Category:Date of death missing / Category:Date of death unknown Category:Place of death missing / Category:Place of death unknown Category:Missing middle or first names See also Category:Dead people Template:L, which generates this category or death years, and birth year and sort keys. Random page in this category Contents: Top 0–9 A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z * # 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 • A Aa Ae Aj Ao At • B Ba Be Bj Bo Bt • C Ca Ce Cj Co Ct • D Da De Dj Do Dt • E Ea Ee Ej Eo Et • F Fa Fe Fj Fo Ft • G Ga Ge Gj Go Gt • H Ha He Hj Ho Ht • I Ia Ie Ij Io It • J Ja Je Jj Jo Jt • K Ka Ke Kj Ko Kt • L La Le Lj Lo Lt • M Ma Me Mj Mo Mt • N Na Ne Nj No Nt • O Oa Oe Oj Oo Ot • P Pa Pe Pj Po Pt • Q Qa Qe Qj Qo Qt • R Ra Re Rj Ro Rt • S Sa Se Sj So St • T Ta Te Tj To Tt • U Ua Ue Uj Uo Ut • V Va Ve Vj Vo Vt • W Wa We Wj Wo Wt • X Xa Xe Xj Xo Xt • Y Ya Ye Yj Yo Yt • Z Za Ze Zj Zo Zt contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 56 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Category:Living_people responseCode 3 200 