zgggcocagmaiyqzmumcaqipilcfelcainobapkea page 10088 Either of two extreme points in a celestial object's orbit Several terms redirect here. For other uses, see Apogee (disambiguation), Perigee (disambiguation), and Apse (disambiguation). Not to be confused with Apse or Aspis. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Apsis" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2020) (template removal help) The apsides refer to the farthest (2) and nearest (3) points reached by an orbiting planetary body (2 and 3) with respect to a primary, or host, body (1). An apsis (from Ancient Greek ἁψίς (hapsís) 'arch, vault'; pl. apsides /ˈæpsɪˌdiːz/ AP-sih-deez)[1][2] is the farthest or nearest point in the orbit of a planetary body about its primary body. The line of apsides is the line connecting the two extreme values. For example, for orbits about the Sun the apsides are called aphelion (farthest) and perihelion (nearest). The Moon's two apsides are the farthest point, apogee, and the nearest point, perigee, of its orbit around the host Earth. Earth's two apsides are the farthest point, aphelion, and the nearest point, perihelion, of its orbit around the host Sun. The terms aphelion and perihelion apply in the same way to the orbits of Jupiter and the other planets, the comets, and the asteroids of the Solar System. Part of a series on Astrodynamics Orbital mechanics Orbital elements Apsis Argument of periapsis Eccentricity Inclination Mean anomaly Orbital nodes Semi-major axis True anomaly Types of two-body orbits by eccentricity Circular orbit Elliptic orbit Transfer orbit (Hohmann transfer orbit Bi-elliptic transfer orbit) Parabolic orbit Hyperbolic orbit Radial orbit Decaying orbit Equations Dynamical friction Escape velocity Kepler's equation Kepler's laws of planetary motion Orbital period Orbital velocity Surface gravity Specific orbital energy Vis-viva equation Celestial mechanics Gravitational influences Barycenter Hill sphere Perturbations Sphere of influence N-body orbits Lagrangian points (Halo orbits) Lissajous orbits Lyapunov orbits Engineering and efficiency Preflight engineering Mass ratio Payload fraction Propellant mass fraction Tsiolkovsky rocket equation Efficiency measures Gravity assist Oberth effect v t e General description[edit] The two-body system of interacting elliptic orbits: The smaller, satellite body (blue) orbits the primary body (yellow); both are in elliptic orbits around their common center of mass (or barycenter), (red +). ∗Periapsis and apoapsis as distances: The smallest and largest distances between the orbiter and its host body. There are two apsides in any elliptic orbit. The name for each apsis is created from the prefixes ap-, apo- (from ἀπ(ό), (ap(o)-) 'away from') for the farthest or peri- (from περί (peri-) 'near') for the closest point to the primary body, with a suffix that describes the primary body. The suffix for Earth is -gee, so the apsides' names are apogee and perigee. For the Sun, the suffix is -helion, so the names are aphelion and perihelion. According to Newton's laws of motion, all periodic orbits are ellipses. The barycenter of the two bodies may lie well within the bigger body—e.g., the Earth–Moon barycenter is about 75% of the way from Earth's center to its surface. If, compared to the larger mass, the smaller mass is negligible (e.g., for satellites), then the orbital parameters are independent of the smaller mass. When used as a suffix—that is, -apsis—the term can refer to the two distances from the primary body to the orbiting body when the latter is located: 1) at the periapsis point, or 2) at the apoapsis point (compare both graphics, second figure). The line of apsides denotes the distance of the line that joins the nearest and farthest points across an orbit; it also refers simply to the extreme range of an object orbiting a host body (see top figure; see third figure). In orbital mechanics, the apsides technically refer to the distance measured between the center of mass of the central body and the center of mass of the orbiting body. However, in the case of a spacecraft, the terms are commonly used to refer to the orbital altitude of the spacecraft above the surface of the central body (assuming a constant, standard reference radius). Keplerian orbital elements: point F, the nearest point of approach of an orbiting body, is the pericenter (also periapsis) of an orbit; point H, the farthest point of the orbiting body, is the apocenter (also apoapsis) of the orbit; and the red line between them is the line of apsides. Terminology[edit] The words "pericenter" and "apocenter" are often seen, although periapsis/apoapsis are preferred in technical usage. For generic situations where the primary is not specified, the terms pericenter and apocenter are used for naming the extreme points of orbits (see table, top figure); periapsis and apoapsis (or apapsis) are equivalent alternatives, but these terms also frequently refer to distances—that is, the smallest and largest distances between the orbiter and its host body (see second figure). For a body orbiting the Sun, the point of least distance is the perihelion (/ˌpɛrɪˈhiːliən/), and the point of greatest distance is the aphelion (/æpˈhiːliən/);[3] when discussing orbits around other stars the terms become periastron and apastron. When discussing a satellite of Earth, including the Moon, the point of least distance is the perigee (/ˈpɛrɪdʒiː/), and of greatest distance, the apogee (from Ancient Greek: Γῆ (Gē), "land" or "earth").[4] For objects in lunar orbit, the point of least distance are called the pericynthion (/ˌpɛrɪˈsɪnθiən/) and the greatest distance the apocynthion (/ˌæpəˈsɪnθiən/). The terms perilune and apolune, as well as periselene and aposelene are also used.[5] Since the Moon has no natural satellites this only applies to man-made objects. Etymology[edit] The words perihelion and aphelion were coined by Johannes Kepler[6] to describe the orbital motions of the planets around the Sun. The words are formed from the prefixes peri- (Greek: περί, near) and apo- (Greek: ἀπό, away from), affixed to the Greek word for the sun, (ἥλιος, or hēlíos).[3] Various related terms are used for other celestial objects. The suffixes -gee, -helion, -astron and -galacticon are frequently used in the astronomical literature when referring to the Earth, Sun, stars, and the galactic center respectively. The suffix -jove is occasionally used for Jupiter, but -saturnium has very rarely been used in the last 50 years for Saturn. The -gee form is also used as a generic closest-approach-to "any planet" term—instead of applying it only to Earth. During the Apollo program, the terms pericynthion and apocynthion were used when referring to orbiting the Moon; they reference Cynthia, an alternative name for the Greek Moon goddess Artemis.[7] More recently, during the Artemis program, the terms perilune and apolune have been used.[8] Regarding black holes, the term peribothron was first used in a 1976 paper by J. Frank and M. J. Rees,[9] who credit W. R. Stoeger for suggesting creating a term using the greek word for pit: "bothron". The terms perimelasma and apomelasma (from a Greek root) were used by physicist and science-fiction author Geoffrey A. Landis in a story published in 1998,[10] thus appearing before perinigricon and aponigricon (from Latin) in the scientific literature in 2002.[11] Terminology summary[edit] The suffixes shown below may be added to prefixes peri- or apo- to form unique names of apsides for the orbiting bodies of the indicated host/(primary) system. However, only for the Earth, Moon and Sun systems are the unique suffixes commonly used. Exoplanet studies commonly use -astron, but typically, for other host systems the generic suffix, -apsis, is used instead.[12][failed verification] Host objects in the Solar System with named/nameable apsides Astronomical host object Suffix Origin of the name Sun -helion Helios Mercury -hermion Hermes Venus -cythe Cytherean Earth -gee Gaia Moon -lune[5] -cynthion -selene[5] Luna Cynthia Selene Mars -areion Ares Ceres -demeter[13] Demeter Jupiter -jove Zeus Jupiter Saturn -chron[5] -kronos -saturnium -krone[14] Cronos Saturn Other host objects with named/nameable apsides Astronomical host object Suffix Origin of the name Star -astron Lat: astra; stars Galaxy -galacticon Gr: galaxias; galaxy Barycenter -center -focus -apsis Black hole -melasma -bothron -nigricon Gr: melos; black Gr: bothros; hole Lat: niger; black Perihelion and aphelion[edit] "Aphelion" redirects here. For other uses, see Aphelion (disambiguation). Diagram of a body's direct orbit around the Sun with its nearest (perihelion) and farthest (aphelion) points. The perihelion (q) and aphelion (Q) are the nearest and farthest points respectively of a body's direct orbit around the Sun. Comparing osculating elements at a specific epoch to effectively those at a different epoch will generate differences. The time-of-perihelion-passage as one of six osculating elements is not an exact prediction (other than for a generic two-body model) of the actual minimum distance to the Sun using the full dynamical model. Precise predictions of perihelion passage require numerical integration. Inner planets and outer planets[edit] The two images below show the orbits, orbital nodes, and positions of perihelion (q) and aphelion (Q) for the planets of the Solar System[15] as seen from above the northern pole of Earth's ecliptic plane, which is coplanar with Earth's orbital plane. The planets travel counterclockwise around the Sun and for each planet, the blue part of their orbit travels north of the ecliptic plane, the pink part travels south, and dots mark perihelion (green) and aphelion (orange). The first image (below-left) features the inner planets, situated outward from the Sun as Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars.  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 44 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Perihelion responseCode 3 200 