zifslkkciotiyqbkcqrscoxascwkfktovolscses length 6 776996 page 10085 Government formation process in Spain following the 2015 general election 2015–2016 Spanish government formation Mariano Rajoy being congratulated by PSOE spokesperson Antonio Hernando after his successful investiture as prime minister on 29 October 2016. Date 1st: 21 December 2015 – 26 April 2016 2nd: 27 June – 29 October 2016 Location Spain Cause Hung parliaments following the 2015 and 2016 general elections. Participants PP PSOE Podemos C's ERC CDC/ PDeCAT PNV Compromís IU EH Bildu UPN CCa FAC NCa Outcome 1st: Signing of PSOE–C's pact. Pedro Sánchez's failed investiture on 4 March. Inconclusiveness of government formation negotiations leading to fresh election. 2nd: Signing of PP–C's pact. Mariano Rajoy's failed investiture on 2 September. PSOE crisis leading to Sánchez's ouster and the party voting to allow a PP minority government. Rajoy's successful investiture on 29 October. Second Rajoy government formed. Attempts to form a government in Spain followed the inconclusive Spanish general election of 20 December 2015, which failed to deliver an overall majority for any political party. As a result, the previous People's Party (PP) cabinet headed by Mariano Rajoy was forced to remain in a caretaker capacity until the election of a new government. After a series of inconclusive inter-party negotiations, leader of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) Pedro Sánchez tried and failed to pass an investiture vote on 2–4 March. Subsequently, a political impasse set in as King Felipe VI could not find a new candidate to nominate with sufficient parliamentary support. As a result, a snap election was held on 26 June. The second election also proved inconclusive, and a failed investiture attempt by Rajoy on 31 August raised the prospect of a third election. On 1 October, a party rebellion resulted in Sánchez being ousted as leader of the PSOE and the latter voting to allow the formation of a PP minority government. This materialized on 29 October when the PSOE abstained in Rajoy's second investiture bid, thus ending the political deadlock after 313 days without an operational government. Legal provisions[edit] The procedure for government formation in Spain was outlined in Article 99 of the 1978 Constitution: 1. After renewal of the Congress of Deputies, and in other cases provided under the Constitution, the King, after consultation with the representatives appointed by the political groups with Parliamentary representation, and through the Speaker of Congress, shall nominate a candidate for President of the Government. 2. The candidate nominate [sic] in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall submit to the Congress of Deputies the political programme of the Government that he intends to form and shall seek the confidence of the Houses. 3. If the Congress of Deputies, by vote of the absolute majority of its members, invests said candidate with its confidence, the King shall appoint him President. If an absolute majority is not obtained, the same proposal shall be submitted for a new vote forty-eight hours after the previous vote, and it shall be considered that confidence has been secured if it passes by a simple majority. 4. If, after this vote, confidence for the investiture has not been obtained, successive proposals shall be voted upon in the manner provided in the foregoing paragraphs. 5. If within two months after the first vote for investiture no candidate has obtained the confidence of Congress, the King shall dissolve Congress and call new elections, following endorsement by the Speaker of Congress. — Article 99 of the Spanish Constitution.[1] First formation round (December 2015 – April 2016)[edit] Post-2015 election developments[edit] Initial positions[edit] As the 2015 Spanish general election produced a very fragmented parliament, a multi-party agreement was expected to be required in order for a stable government to be formed. Caretaker prime minister and People's Party (PP) leader Mariano Rajoy said that he would try to form an administration, whereas opposition and Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) leader Pedro Sánchez advocated for a change in government. Two possible coalitions based on the left–right political spectrum, the right-wing (PP with Citizens (C's))—and the left-wing (PSOE with Podemos), were both short of an overall majority—set at 176 seats—by themselves.[2] There was speculation around four outcomes:[2] Congress of Deputies resulting from the 20 December 2015 general election. A grand coalition of PP and PSOE, an unprecedented phenomenon in Spanish politics but the only feasible two-party deal that would be able to reach an absolute majority, with 213 seats.[3] A PSOE, Podemos and C's alliance, comprising 199 seats. A PSOE, Podemos and United Left (IU) coalition—comprising 161 seats—together with smaller regional parties. Parliamentary deadlock lasting for two months from a first failed investiture ballot, resulting in a new general election to be held at some point throughout 2016.[4] As a result of the arithmetical infeasibility of an alliance with C's, Rajoy intended for reaching out to the PSOE to at least secure their abstention in his investiture, even suggesting giving them out some additional posts in the Congress bureau.[5][6] This possibility was not contemplated by Sánchez, but he and his party avoided making any comments on the formation of an alternative left-wing government that included Podemos and its regional alliances.[7] Some within the party—such as president of Castilla–La Mancha Emiliano García-Page—pointed out that, even if the PSOE obtained Podemos's support, it would not muster a majority without that of other parties as well and advocated for the party to remain in opposition.[8] Podemos leader Pablo Iglesias laid out stiff terms in order to consider starting negotiations with any party, including the protection of rights within the Constitution, electoral reform, the introduction of recall elections and a new territorial agreement that recognized Spain as a plurinational state and allowed the celebration of a self-determination referendum in Catalonia.[9] The party's policy secretary, Íñigo Errejón, also expressed their initial refusal to support Sánchez as a prospective candidate for prime minister, suggesting instead to look for "an independent candidate, above parties".[10][11] C's leader Albert Rivera had promised during the campaign that he would not be actively supporting either a PP or a PSOE-led government, but that his party could consider an abstention to allow the formation of a minority PP cabinet and that it would oppose any alliance in which Podemos was involved.[12][13][14] PSOE's stance[edit] As a consequence of the election, the PSOE was placed in a kingmaker position. Several regional PSOE leaders rallied around Andalusian president Susana Díaz and warned Sánchez against any agreement with Podemos, seeing the conditions put forward by Pablo Iglesias in the election aftermath as "unaffordable".[9] Some regional premiers from the party—such as García-Page, Valencian president Ximo Puig, Asturias's Javier Fernández or Extremadura's Guillermo Fernández Vara—favoured letting the PP try to form a government on its own.[15][16] After a meeting with Rajoy on 23 December, Sánchez opposed any deals with the PP and voiced his preference to probe alternative alliances instead,[17][18] while also rejecting a previous proposal from Albert Rivera of a deal between PP, PSOE and C's—explicitly excluding Podemos—that promoted "the regeneration policy reforms that Spain needed".[19][20] Prime minister Rajoy and PSOE leader Sánchez in their post-election meeting on 23 December 2015. Sánchez also faced criticism from within his own party in light of his election result—the worst in the PSOE's recent history up to that point—as his critics aimed for a party congress to be held in February to vote on a new leadership.[21][22] Díaz—who had become the leading figure of the PSOE's internal opposition to Sánchez—sought to become the new party leader and to eventually lead the PSOE into a new general election,[23][24][25] wanting to limit Sánchez's pact policy through the resolutions of the party's federal committee.[16] This was accomplished on 28 December, when the party determined that, should Podemos not withdraw its red line condition to hold a referendum in Catalonia, the party would not discuss any pacts with them, requiring Sánchez to avoid becoming prime minister "at any price".[26] Concurrently and in spite of his strong contestation within the party, Sánchez suggested delaying the PSOE leadership election until a new government was formed or a new election was held, with critics claiming that the election should be held "when it is due".[21][27] In order to force Sánchez into the negotiating table, PP, Podemos, and C's took advantage of the growing rebellion within the PSOE. Pablo Iglesias questioned that people within the PSOE "wouldn't allow Pedro be prime minister", noting that Sánchez "does not control" the party,[28][29] while warning of the dangers of a hypothetical "three-way grand coalition" between PP, PSOE and C's that Podemos would oppose.[30] Rivera pointed out that his party was waiting "for [the PSOE] to solve its internal affairs",[31] whereas the PP reaffirmed its claim to lead the next Spanish government by seeking a multy-party pact with PSOE and C's.[32][33] PSOE's spokesperson Antonio Hernando confirmed on 5 January that the PSOE would reject the PP's proposal of a grand coalition.[34] On 30 January, amid discussions between the different party factions on the party congress's date—with those supporting Sánchez seeking to delay it until June and his critics wishing to hold it sooner, in April—an agreement was reached for a new leadership to be elected through a party primary election on 8 May, with Sánchez announcing his will to seek re-election. The party congress to ratify the result of the primarie contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 80 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/2015%E2%80%932016_Spanish_government_formation responseCode 3 200 