zoqsnkhgqoyqucckrkcgtqngskrcwmcakmtemasg length 6 298383 page 10055 Project pages for face-to-face meetups that are held regularly around the world Wikipedia information page This is an information page. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting. Shortcuts WP:MEET WP:MEETUP WP:MEETUPS Wikipedia Meetups    November 2023 +/- London 198 November 12, 2023 (2023-11-12) US Mountain West online November 14, 2023 (2023-11-14) WikiWeds NYC November 15, 2023 (2023-11-15) Sabah 16 November 18, 2023 (2023-11-18) Oxford 95 November 19, 2023 (2023-11-19) Selangor 8 November 21, 2023 (2023-11-21) Sabah 17 November 25, 2023 (2023-11-25) San Diego 105 November 27, 2023 (2023-11-27)    December 2023 +/- Ottawa Edit-athon December 2, 2023 (2023-12-02) NYC Hacking Night December 7, 2023 (2023-12-07) London 199 December 10, 2023 (2023-12-10) Aotearoa New Zealand Online December 10, 2023 (2023-12-10) Australian Open Community Meeting Online December 13, 2023 (2023-12-13) Full Meetup Calendar • Events calendar on Meta For meetups in other languages, see the list on Meta Wikipedians and other Wikimedians organize meetups to socialize and collaborate around the common goal of sharing information. Anyone can organize a meetup. Although it helps to plan a bit and have some awareness of how Wikipedia works, no one needs permission to have a meetup and there is no requirement for anyone to have a meetup in a certain way. Some meetups are in person but online programs and events are great too. Some meetups are for discussing Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects, while others have the goal of convening people to edit. Many meetups have at least one experienced Wikipedia editor present, but lots of meetups have organized and accomplished their goals without an experienced editor attending. This page is used as a starting point for Wikipedians organising meetups, and subpages are used for finalising the details once a meetup has been agreed. For meetings in other languages/places please use the interlanguage links from this page. Basics for beginners[edit] There are lots of ways to organize a Wikipedia meetup. There is no need to request anyone's permission. Feel free to publicly advertise that you are hosting a Wikipedia meetup for anyone who wants to edit the wiki with the community of volunteer editors. Although there are not particular requirements, for anyone who wants orientation, here is a proven model that works. As you plan your event, start here and modify this plan as appropriate for your situation. Get commitments from a few people, each of whom will serve one role and not be responsible for the other roles: Wikipedia editor – it is very useful to have at least one person who has edited Wikipedia before. At the very least, consider having someone take an online tutorial, make a few edits, and know how to ask questions in Wikipedia's help forums. Venue host – there has to be a place to meet. If the meeting is in a coffeehouse then someone should reserve a table. If the meeting is in a community center, like a library, museum, college, or similar, then confirm with a host that everyone has a space to meet. Subject matter expert – Wikipedia is a summary of information from reliable sources. To edit Wikipedia, someone has to curate and suggest reliable sources to summarize and cite. For example, if a Wikipedia event is in a library, then get a subject matter expert to select some books in advance – perhaps around a common theme for the meetup – and make them available to the event participants Community organizer – this is the person who invites people to the event. Since the event is for the benefit and enjoyment of the participants, then the person who can recruit participants to the event is typically also the person who sets the theme of the event. Common themes are local history, biographies of a certain group of people, or some set of social topics. Consider whether you want a record of outcomes If anyone involved in presenting the event is part of an organization, then typically they will want "outcome metrics" or "proof of impact". Organizations which support wiki events like getting evidence that participants actually accomplished something useful In general, a useful outcome is a list of what Wikipedia articles everyone edited and perhaps a record of how many people read those articles While there are many ways to get outcomes, the most popular way is to have participants sign up to the "Programs and Events Dashboard" Hopefully a new user can set up a program page in the dashboard in 10 minutes To use the dashboard, share the weblink with all attendees. If they register Wiki accounts, then they can join the dashboard participant list with a click Consider whether you want to connect with the broader Wikimedia community If you want a referral, then perhaps ask at Wikipedia:Pump Advantages: If you collaborate with others then you can join discussions about what you are doing If you are doing something similar to others then everyone shares in the outcomes toward a common goal Disadvantages Some people want to get started immediately without planning in advance Everyone is a volunteer, so probably to collaborate you have to join a global campaign like Wiki Loves Monuments, Art+Feminism, or some other project which rallies around a particular theme. If the themes match what you want, then great. If not, then those communities may not be available. Projects and events[edit] WikiConference USA 2015 Art and Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon, Chicago, February 1, 2014 Video narrated by Jimbo Wales that can be used to promote meetups Projects, initiatives, user groups[edit] AfroCROWD Art & Community Art+Feminism Black Lunch Table Black WikiHistory Month Black Women Intelligentsia Canada Wide Canadian History Edit-a-thon Music in Canada @ 150 edit-a-thon campaign Colección Patricia Phelps de Cisneros Florida Librarians of Wikipedia Wikimedia Community User Group Hong Kong Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC) Indigenous Film & Media Indigenous Storytellers WikiThon Indiana Center for Eighteenth-Century Studies, Adrianne Wadewitz Tribute Edit-a-thon Kentucky Wikimedians User Group La Guardia and Wagner Archives Philadelphia WikiSalon online Plants And People – includes New York Botanical Garden Smithsonian APA Asian Pacific American Toronto History Wiki Loves Pride WikiConference North America wikiD: Women. Wikipedia. Design. Wikimedia United States Coalition aka 'Wikimedians Active in Local Regions of the United States' (WALRUS) committee WP:WALRUS Wikipedia Day US (January) Great American Wiknic (June) Wikipedia Loves Libraries (October/November) Wikipedia Takes America (September) Wikimedia User Group China (中国维基媒体用户组) Wikimedians of Colorado User Group (WM-US-CO) WikiProject Medicine Mount Sinai WikiProject Metropolitan Museum of Art Women in Red Wooster's WGSS Edit-a-thon 2020 Writing Middle Eastern Women into History Initiative (WMWH) Wiki Loves Women Women in Religion International[edit] WikiCon (WikiConference/WikiConvention) One World Birthday (event celebrating Wikipedia's 20th birthday, January 15, 2021; Saturday morning in Asia, Friday afternoon/evening in the Americas, late night in Europe) Categories[edit] Wikiday Wikimania Wikipedia:Meetup/WikiWednesday Wikipedia Takes The City WikiSym Wikiversity Meetup Related pages[edit] Wikimedia user groups Procedure and advice[edit] 2016 Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon Create the page Use or create a sub page of Wikipedia:Meetup to organize the meeting. Make it easy to sign up, with simple subsections like Likely attendees, Possible attendees and Regrets for signup lists, as at Meetup/NYC. See Wikipedia Meetups – A design pattern catalogue for advice about Locations, Timing, People, and Topics. Attract attendees Solicit invitations of geographically local Wikipedia users. Create a geonotice request. Create a list of Wikipedians interested in future and regular meetups for a given location where they can sign up (alternatively, userboxes with corresponding categories can be used). Use an info box like {{Wikipedia:Meetup/Melbourne/Invite}} for mass invitations. Use other media outside of Wikipedia to advertise to non-Wikipedia users Post a notice at the relevant page of wikipedia.meetup.com Post a couple of notices on Craigslist (free). Word of mouth is always an option. Don't be afraid to spam people: Make a big list like Meetup/NYC/Invite list from all people who have ever expressed interest in attending a meetup, as well as all people in categories like Category:Wikipedians in Philadelphia, the Philadelphia userbox and other regional categories. Don't manually post notices to all the editors who are listed in a geographical category. Simply post a request at WP:BOTREQ, asking for a bot owner to have a bot deliver the (specified) message to everyone in the category. Place notices at talk pages like Wikipedia talk:WikiProject Philadelphia and even Talk:Philadelphia. Contact your local chapter – if you have one – who will be able to contact people in the local area, or help you in other ways. Organize event Organize location Organize eating arrangements Settle on a definite time and place, and don't change it. If someone is just bold, people will know about the date a few weeks in advance (instead of a couple of days), which will make planning easier for individuals. Getting input from everyone is good, but you don't need a formal vote on everything, which can delay the process. Consider whether you want any sort of agenda for the meetup (like a discussion on a specific topic, or forming a local chapter). Pictures[edit] A gallery from many different cities can be found at: Meetup/Gallery Wikipedia 10 – Photo gallery First meetup Dhaka, Bangladesh July 14, 2007 Fifth meetup Philadelphia, United States November 11, 2007 First meetup Vancouver, Canada May 5, 2008 1s contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 50 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Wikipedia:Meetup responseCode 3 200 