zovscevqdapcpsianqhmkcbqbshibqsgmkqqhifm length 6 336205 page 10002 Medical specialty dealing with adult diseases "Internist" redirects here. For the medical intern, see Internship (medicine). Internal medicine, also known as general internal medicine in Commonwealth nations, is a medical specialty for medical doctors focused on the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of internal diseases. Medical practitioners of internal medicine are referred to as internists, or physicians in Commonwealth nations.[1] Internists possess specialized skills in managing patients with undifferentiated or multi-system disease processes. They provide care to both hospitalized (inpatient) and ambulatory (outpatient) patients and often contribute significantly to teaching and research. Internists are qualified physicians who have undergone postgraduate training in internal medicine, and should not be confused with "interns”,[2] a term commonly used for a medical doctor who has obtained a medical degree but does not yet have a license to practice medicine unsupervised.[3][4] In the United States and Commonwealth nations, there is often confusion between internal medicine and family medicine, with people mistakenly considering them equivalent. Internists primarily work in hospitals, as their patients are frequently seriously ill or require extensive medical tests. Internists often have subspecialty interests in diseases affecting particular organs or organ systems. The certification process and available subspecialties may vary across different countries. Additionally, internal medicine is recognized as a specialty within clinical pharmacy and veterinary medicine. Etymology and historical development[edit] Robert Koch, 19th century German physician and microbiologist[5] The term internal medicine in English has its etymology in the 19th-century German term Innere Medizin. Originally,[6] internal medicine focused on determining the underlying "internal" or pathological causes of symptoms and syndromes through a combination of medical tests and bedside clinical examination of patients. This approach differed from earlier generations of physicians, such as the 17th-century English physician Thomas Sydenham, known as the father of English medicine or "the English Hippocrates." Sydenham developed the field of nosology (the study of diseases) through a clinical approach that involved diagnosing and managing diseases based on careful bedside observation of the natural history of disease and their treatment.[7] Sydenham emphasized understanding the internal mechanisms and causes of symptoms rather than dissecting cadavers and scrutinizing the internal workings of the body.[8] In the 17th century, there was a shift towards anatomical pathology and laboratory studies, and Giovanni Battista Morgagni, an Italian anatomist of the 18th century, is considered the father of anatomical pathology.[9] Laboratory investigations gained increasing significance, with contributions from physicians like German physician and bacteriologist Robert Koch in the 19th century.[5] During this time, internal medicine emerged as a field that integrated the clinical approach with the use of investigations.[10] Many American physicians of the early 20th century studied medicine in Germany and introduced this medical field to the United States, adopting the name "internal medicine" in imitation of the existing German term.[6] Internal medicine has historical roots in ancient India and ancient China.[11] The earliest texts about internal medicine can be found in the Ayurvedic anthologies of Charaka.[12] Role of internal medicine specialists[edit] Internal medicine specialists, also referred to as general internal medicine specialists or general medicine physicians in Commonwealth countries,[13] are specialized physicians trained to manage complex or multisystem disease conditions that single-organ specialists may not be equipped to handle.[14] They are often called upon to address undifferentiated presentations that do not fit neatly within the scope of a single-organ specialty,[15] such as shortness of breath, fatigue, weight loss, chest pain, confusion, or alterations in conscious state.[13] They may manage serious acute illnesses that affect multiple organ systems concurrently within a single patient, as well as the management of multiple chronic diseases in a single patient.[14] While many internal medicine physicians choose to subspecialize in specific organ systems, general internal medicine specialists do not necessarily possess any lesser expertise than single-organ specialists. Rather, they are specifically trained to care for patients with multiple simultaneous problems or complex comorbidities.[15] Due to the complexity involved in explaining the treatment of diseases that are not localized to a single organ, there has been some confusion surrounding the meaning of internal medicine and the role of an "internist."[16] Although internists may serve as primary care physicians, they are not synonymous with "family physicians," "family practitioners," "general practitioners," or "GPs." The training of internists is solely focused on adults and does not typically include surgery, obstetrics, or pediatrics. According to the American College of Physicians, internists are defined as "physicians who specialize in the prevention, detection, and treatment of illnesses in adults."[17] While there may be some overlap in the patient population served by both internal medicine and family medicine physicians, internists primarily focus on adult care with an emphasis on diagnosis, whereas family medicine incorporates a holistic approach to care for the entire family unit. Internists also receive substantial training in various recognized subspecialties within the field and are experienced in both inpatient and outpatient settings. On the other hand, family medicine physicians receive education covering a wide range of conditions and typically train in an outpatient setting with less exposure to hospital settings.[18] The historical roots of internal medicine can be traced back to the incorporation of scientific principles into medical practice in the 1800s, while family medicine emerged as part of the primary care movement in the 1960s.[18][19][20] Education and training[edit] Main article: Medical education The training and career pathways for internists vary considerably across different countries. Many programs require previous undergraduate education prior to medical school admission. This "pre-medical" education is typically four or five years in length. Graduate medical education programs vary in length by country. Medical education programs are tertiary-level courses, undertaken at a medical school attached to a university. In the US, medical school consists of four years. Hence, gaining a basic medical education may typically take eight years, depending on jurisdiction and university.[21] Following completion of entry-level training, newly graduated medical practitioners are often required to undertake a period of supervised practice before their licensure, or registration, is granted, typically one or two years. This period may be referred to as "internship", "conditional registration", or "foundation programme". Then, doctors may follow specialty training in internal medicine if they wish, typically being selected to training programs through competition. In North America, this period of postgraduate training is referred to as residency training, followed by an optional fellowship if the internist decides to train in a subspecialty.[22] In most countries, residency training for internal medicine lasts three years and centers on secondary and tertiary levels of health care, as opposed to primary health care. In Commonwealth countries, trainees are often called senior house officers for four years after the completion of their medical degree (foundation and core years). After this period, they are able to advance to registrar grade when they undergo a compulsory subspecialty training (including acute internal medicine or a dual subspecialty including internal medicine). This latter stage of training is achieved through competition rather than just by yearly progress as the first years of postgraduate training.[23][24] Certification[edit] In the US, three organizations are responsible for the certification of trained internists (i.e., doctors who have completed an accredited residency training program) in terms of their knowledge, skills, and attitudes that are essential for patient care: the American Board of Internal Medicine, the American Osteopathic Board of Internal Medicine and the Board of Certification in Internal Medicine.[25][26] In the UK, the General Medical Council oversees licensing and certification of internal medicine physicians.[27] The Royal Australasian College of Physicians confers fellowship to internists (and sub-specialists) in Australia.[28] The Medical Council of Canada oversees licensing of internists in Canada.[29] Subspecialties[edit] The examples and perspective in this section may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate. (December 2010) (template removal help) United States of America[edit] In the US, two organizations are responsible for certification of subspecialists within the field: the American Board of Internal Medicine and the American Osteopathic Board of Internal Medicine. Physicians (not only internists) who successfully pass board exams receive "board certified" status. American Board of Internal Medicine[edit] The following are the subspecialties recognized by the American Board of Internal Medicine.[25] Adolescent medicine Adult congenital heart disease Advanced heart failure and transplant cardiology Allergy and immunology, concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and management of allergies, asthma and disorders of the immune system.[30] Cardiovascular disease, dealing with disor contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Internal_medicine responseCode 3 200 