zqhejanooctewiuosedcraneechiaqzmqkjkmafg page 10045 Battle in the 2022 invasion of Ukraine This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article needs to be updated. Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (December 2022) This article's lead section may be too short to adequately summarize the key points. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. (November 2023) (template removal help) You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Ukrainian. (December 2022) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Ukrainian article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 532 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Ukrainian Wikipedia article at [[:uk:Бої за Попасну]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|uk|Бої за Попасну}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. Battle of Popasna Part of the battle of Donbas in the Russian invasion of Ukraine Date 3 March[1] – 7 May 2022 (2 months and 4 days) Location Popasna, Luhansk Oblast, Ukraine 48°37′N 38°21′E﻿ / ﻿48.617°N 38.350°E﻿ / 48.617; 38.350 Result Russian victory[2][3] Belligerents Russia Luhansk People's Republic Ukraine Commanders and leaders Yevgeny Prigozhin Hennadiy Shcherbak † Units involved PMC Wagner Russian Armed Forces Kadyrovites National Guard of Russia LPR People's Militia Ukrainian Armed Forces 24th Mechanized Brigade[4] Casualties and losses Unknown Unknown v t e Russian invasion of Ukraine Northern Ukraine campaign Antonov Airport Chernobyl Hostomel Ivankiv Kyiv airstrikes shopping centre bombing Kyiv convoy Vasylkiv Bucha massacre Irpin refugee column shelling Makariv Moshchun Brovary Slavutych Borodianka Hlukhiv Konotop Sumy ammonia leak Trostianets Chernihiv 3 March bombing 16 March breadline attack August 2023 missile strike Okhtyrka Lebedyn Northeastern border Desna Eastern Ukraine campaign Avdiivka Mariupol hospital airstrike theatre airstrike art school bombing Kharkiv airstrikes February cluster bombing government building airstrike March cluster bombing April cluster bombing dormitories missile strike Chuhuiv Air Base Volnovakha massacre Izium massacre Stara Krasnianka Donetsk March attack June attack September attack Rubizhne Marinka Popasna Kramatorsk railway station attack restaurant attack Sloviansk offensive Battle of Donbas Kreminna Siverskyi Donets school bombing Sievierodonetsk Toshkivka 1st Lyman Sviatohirsk Lysychansk Siversk Chasiv Yar Pisky Olenivka massacre Bakhmut Soledar Kharkiv counteroffensive Balakliia Kupiansk civilian convoy shelling 2nd Lyman Vuhledar Makiivka Luhansk Oblast campaign Lyman cluster bombing Kostiantynivka Hroza Novyi Korotych Southern Ukraine campaign Kherson bombing Melitopol Mykolaiv bombing cluster bombing government building airstrike Chornobaivka Enerhodar Zaporizhzhia NPP 1st and 2nd Voznesensk Huliaipole Orikhiv Davydiv Brid Crimea Novofedorivka 1st Crimean Bridge 1st Sevastopol Naval Base 2nd Crimean Bridge 2nd Sevastopol Naval Base Kherson counteroffensive Prelude Nova Kakhovka Liberation of Kherson Dnieper Kakhovka Dam 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive Zarichne [uk] Other regions Zaporizhzhia civilian convoy attack residential building airstrike Ivano-Frankivsk Kryvyi Rih Lviv Odesa Zhytomyr Rivne Vinnytsia Dnipro 2023 residential building airstrike Yavoriv Khmelnytskyi Kremenchuk Serhiivka Chaplyne Strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Sloviansk Uman Pokrovsk Naval operations Snake Island Berdiansk Moskva Spillover and cross-border incidents Western Russia Millerovo Dyagilevo and Engels air bases Bryansk Oblast Belgorod Oblast Moscow Kremlin drone attack 30 May 2023 Moscow drone strikes Transnistria Poland Przewodów Belarus Machulishchy Resistance Ukrainian resistance Belarusian–Russian anti-war resistance rail war in Belarus rail war in Russia Russian commisariat attacks Ust-Ilimsk shooting St. Petersburg cafe bombing Related Zagreb Tu-141 crash Russian mystery fires Nord Stream pipeline sabotage Soloti training ground shooting Brovary helicopter crash Black Sea drone incident Belgorod accidental bombing Wagner Group rebellion Wagner Group plane crash Operation Synytsia The battle of Popasna was a military engagement during the Eastern Ukraine campaign as part of the Battle of the Donbas, the battle began on March 3, 2022, and ended on May 7, 2022. [1] Background[edit] Popasna is an important regional hub with many roadway junctions key to Separatist forces during the war in Donbas and the Russian advance during the Eastern Ukraine campaign as part of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Protracted battles had taken place throughout the years of the Donbas conflict, with clashes between Ukrainian and Separatist forces being frequent every year, prior to the full-scale invasion by Russia in early 2022, Ukrainian forces held a number of settlements around the agglomeration, this included the city itself, the villages of Troitske, and Novooleksandrivka, and the towns of Hirske, Novotoshkivske, and Zolote. Before the invasion, the city had a population of approximately 22,000 people.[5] Battle[edit] Ukrainian prisoners in Popasna.[6] Clashes for the heavily fortified city began around 3 March 2022.[7] Regionally, troops of the Luhansk People's Republic (LPR) and the Russian Armed Forces advanced and captured Kreminna farther to the north on 18 April. They later began advancing towards Popasna on the southern axis and Rubizhne along the southern axis.[citation needed] In mid-April, Russian and LPR troops launched artillery and air strikes on Ukrainian positions in the Popasna area. As clashes and shelling continued, civilians living in frontline areas fled to basements for shelter. However, by 18 April, according to the Institute for the Study of War, the Russian military was making little progress on the ground. According to pro-Russian sources, Russian-LPR forces launched more artillery and missile barrages in the region on 20 April following nighttime Ukrainian counterattacks. The same day, Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov claimed Hennadii Shcherbak, a "Ukrainian nationalist that collaborated with NATO instructors" was killed in Popasna.[8][9] On 21 April, Ukraine's 24th Mechanized Brigade, one of the main units defending the sector, claimed to have killed what appeared to be a 25-man unit of pro-Russian foreign mercenaries in overnight clashes in and around Popasna. Oleksiy Danilov, head of Ukraine's National Security Council, said Libyan and Syrian identification documents were purportedly recovered from the bodies of the unit. The 24th Mechanized Brigade said it had successfully repelled their assault and suggested the militants were foreign fighters of private military company Wagner Group and Russian citizens of rural origins. Danilov said Popasna remained under full Ukrainian control, however the chairman of the Luhansk Regional Administration, Serhiy Haidai, said heavy fighting continued for the city.[10] On 22 April, Serhiy Haidai declared that the Russian army had failed in Popasna and Rubizhne. At the same time, Haidai said that Russian and LPR troops controlled 80 percent of the territory of Luhansk.[11] However, two weeks later on 7 May, the city was reportedly captured by Russian mercenary forces from Wagner Group. The city had been ravaged by the fighting and Chechen Kadyrovites were suspected of having participated in the last phase of the battle. Haidai confirmed Ukrainian troops had withdrawn.[12][3] On 7 May, Haidai initially said in his Telegram channel that the Russians controlled only half of the city,[12] but later admitted Ukrainian forces had withdrawn from Popasna.[13] Western assessments considered Popasna to be fully under Russian control. According to the pro-Russian Telegram channel RIA FAN, Russian and LPR forces began setting up a new Russian-backed government in the city and continued to advance westward as part of the larger offensive.[14] Aftermath[edit] In August, a video and photos of the head and hands of a Ukrainian prisoner of war stuck on poles appeared. The video showed the mutilated body of the captured soldier and then his head stuck on a wooden pole with his hands on metal spikes on either side of it, in front of the garden of a house. The footage was seemingly taken in late July and geolocation showed it was close to the center of Popasna; a sign on a wall of one of the photos showed "21 Nahirna Street". The video and photos were published by Haidai in his Telegram channel along with the comments "They really are orcs. Twenty-first century, occupied Popasna, human skull on the fence" and "There is nothing human about the Russians. We are at war with non-humans." Reactions to the video in social media were harsh. Mikhail Khodorkovsky, an exiled Russian businessman, described the image as an example of the "Russian world", a propaganda term used by the Russian authorities to refer to a cultural and political union of Russian-speakers. Olexander Scherba, former ambassador of Ukraine to Austria, described the event as a contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Battle_of_Popasna responseCode 3 200 