zqwirqoqeegmsgtmkkqmpkuavaxisohofgusdeia length 6 277122 page 10012 Honorific for lawyers in some Commonwealth realms Not to be confused with Privy council or Law officers of the Crown. "Queen's Counsel" redirects here. For the satire in The Times, see Queen's Counsel (comic strip). A 1903 caricature of King's Counsel Robert McCall wearing his court robes at the Bar of England and Wales. For court, he wears a short wig, in addition to bands instead of lace at the collar, but he retains the silk gown and court tailcoat worn on ceremonial occasions. In the United Kingdom and some Commonwealth countries, a King's Counsel (post-nominal initials KC) is a senior trial lawyer appointed by the monarch of the country as a 'Counsel learned in the law'. When the reigning monarch is a woman, the title is called Queen's Counsel. The position originated in England and Wales. Some other Commonwealth countries have retained the designation, while others have either abolished the position or renamed it so as to remove monarchical connotations — for example, 'Senior Counsel' or 'Senior Advocate'. Appointment as King's Counsel is an office recognised by courts. Members in the UK have the privilege of sitting within the inner bar of court. As members wear silk gowns of a particular design (see court dress), appointment as King's Counsel is known informally as taking silk and KCs are often colloquially called silks.[1] Appointments are made from within the legal profession on the basis of merit and not merely a particular level of experience. Successful applicants are normally barristers, or (in Scotland) advocates, with at least 15 years of experience. Historical origins in England and Wales[edit] Historical background[edit] Caricature of Serjeant William Ballantine SL wearing court dress. The extremely small skullcap on the very top of the wig is a vestigal coif, worn only by serjeants-at-law. Caption reads "He resisted the temptation to cross-examine a Prince of the blood"; Vanity Fair, 5 March 1870 The attorney general, solicitor-general and king's serjeants were King's Counsel in Ordinary in the Kingdom of England. The first Queen's Counsel Extraordinary was Sir Francis Bacon, who was given a patent giving him precedence at the Bar in 1597, and formally styled King's Counsel in 1603.[2][3] The right of precedence before the Court granted to Bacon became a hallmark of the early King's Counsel. True to their name, King's/Queen's Counsel initially were representatives of the Crown. The right of precedence and pre-audience bestowed upon them – a form of seniority that allowed them to address the court before others – allowed for the swift resolution of Crown litigation.[4] The new rank of King's Counsel contributed to the gradual obsolescence of the formerly more senior serjeant-at-law by superseding it. The attorney-general and solicitor-general had similarly succeeded the king's serjeants as leaders of the Bar in Tudor times, though not technically senior until 1623 (except for the two senior king's serjeants) and 1813, respectively.[5] King's Counsel came to prominence during the early 1830s, prior to which they were relatively few in number. It became the standard means to recognise a barrister as a senior member of the profession, and the numbers multiplied accordingly.[6] It became of greater professional importance to become a KC, and the serjeants gradually declined. The KCs inherited the prestige of the serjeants and their priority before the courts. The earliest English law list, published in 1775, lists 165 members of the Bar, of whom 14 were King's Counsel, a proportion of about 8.5%. As of 2010[update] roughly the same proportion existed, though the number of barristers had increased to about 12,250 in independent practice (i.e., excluding pupil barristers and employed barristers).[7] In 1839 the number of Queen's Counsel was seventy.[8] In 1882, the number of Queen's Counsel was 187.[9] The list of Queen's Counsel in the Law List of 1897 gave the names of 238,[8] of whom hardly one third appeared to be in actual practice.[10] In 1959, the number of practising Queen's Counsel was 181.[11] In each of the five years up to 1970, the number of practising Queen's Counsel was 208, 209, 221, 236 and 262, respectively.[12] In each of the years 1973 to 1978, the number of practising Queen's Counsel was 329, 345, 370, 372, 384 and 404, respectively.[13] In 1989, the number of practising Queen's Counsel was 601.[11] In each of the years 1991 to 2000, the number of practising Queen's Counsel was 736, 760, 797, 845, 891, 925, 974, 1006, 1043, and 1072, respectively.[14] Gradually, the appointment as Queen's Counsel shifted from a vocational calling to a badge of honor and prestige. In 1898, Lord Watson noted in his opinion in Attorney General of the Dominion of Canada v. Attorney General for the Province of Ontario, writing on behalf of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, that: The exact position occupied by a Queen's Counsel duly appointed is a subject which might admit of a good deal of discussion. It is in the nature of an office under the Crown, although any duties which it entails are almost as unsubstantial as its emoluments; and it is also in the nature of an honour or dignity to this extent, that it is a mark and recognition by the Sovereign of the professional eminence of the counsel upon whom it is conferred.[15] Restrictions[edit] Until the late 19th century, some barristers were granted a patent of precedence in order to obtain the same precedence as a QC without the concomitant restrictions. Queen's Counsel was originally considered an office of profit and hence, under the Act of Settlement 1701, incompatible with membership of the House of Commons.[16] QCs were also required to take the Oath of Supremacy, which Daniel O'Connell refused as a Roman Catholic; despite being the most prominent and best paid barrister in Ireland, he was a junior counsel for 30 years until granted a patent of precedence in 1831.[17] From the beginning, QCs were not allowed to appear against the Crown without a special licence, but this was generally given as a formality. This stipulation was particularly important in criminal cases, which are mostly brought in the name of the Crown. The result was that, until 1920 in England and Wales, QCs had to have a licence to appear in criminal cases for the defence. Queen's Counsel and serjeants were prohibited, at least from the mid-nineteenth century onward, from drafting pleadings alone; a junior barrister had to be retained. They were not permitted to appear in court without a junior barrister, and they had to have barristers' chambers in London.[6] These restrictions had a number of consequences: they made the taking of silk something of a professional risk, because the appointment abolished at a stroke some of the staple work of the junior barrister; they made the use of leading counsel more expensive, and therefore ensured that they were retained only in more important cases, and they protected the work of the junior bar, which could not be excluded by the retention of leading counsel. By the end of the twentieth century, however, all of these rules had been abolished one by one. Appointment as QC has been said to be a matter of status and prestige only, with no formal disadvantages.[18] But economic risk may remain, in some markets, because of loss of junior work to the successful applicant.[citation needed] Appointment from barristers[edit] Queen's Counsel were traditionally selected from barristers, or in Scotland, advocates, rather than from lawyers in general, because they were counsel appointed to conduct court work on behalf of the Crown. Although the limitations on private instruction were gradually relaxed, QCs continued to be selected from barristers, who had the sole right of audience in the higher courts.[citation needed] Women appointed[edit] The first woman appointed King's Counsel was Helen Kinnear in Canada in 1934.[19] The first women to be appointed as King's Counsel in England and Wales were Helena Normanton and Rose Heilbron in 1949. They were preceded by Margaret Kidd KC (later Dame Margaret Kidd QC) appointed a KC in Scotland in 1948.[20][21] Recent developments in the United Kingdom[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "King's Counsel" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2021) (template removal help) England and Wales[edit] In 1994, solicitors of England and Wales became entitled to gain rights of audience in the higher courts, and some 275 were so entitled in 1995. In 1995, these solicitors became entitled to apply for appointment as Queen's Counsel. The first two solicitors were appointed on 27 March 1997, out of 68 new QCs. These were Arthur Marriott (53), partner in the London office of the American law firm of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr based in Washington, D.C., and Lawrence Collins (55), a partner in the City of London law firm of Herbert Smith. Collins was subsequently appointed a High Court judge and ultimately Justice of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom.[22] The appointment of new Queen's Counsel was suspended in 2003, and it was widely expected that the system would be abolished. However, a vigorous campaign was mounted in defence of the system. Supporters included those who considered it as an independent indication of excellence to those (especially foreign commercial litigants) who did not have much else to go on,[23][24] and those who contended that it was a means whereby the most able barristers from ethnic minorities could advance and overcome prejudice, as well as better represent members of an increasingly diverse society.[25] The government's focus switched from abolition to reform and, in particular, reform of the much-criticised "secret soundings" of judges and other establishment legal figures  contentType 24 text/html; charset=UTF-8 url 51 https://en.wikipedia.org:443/wiki/Queen%27s_Counsel responseCode 3 200 